
--- Page 1 ---
1
FK eb har
ಹ IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
: (ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
. WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
BETWEEN:
Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS
INDEX
S. No. Particulars Page No.
1. | Synopsis-(List of Dates and Brief Facts) 6) .- 1೨.
Memorandum of the writ petition 13-4)
Affidavit verifying the petition 1). -43
4. | Annexure A — Official Memorandum dated 4h
26.07.2023 issued by the 214 Respondent
Annexure B — Letter dated 01,09.2023 from the AG ೫6
3% Respondent
Annexure C —Tetter dated 17.11.2023 from the ಈ
4-13
Ist Respondent
7. |Annexure C1 — Letter dated 19.12.2023 from Ag -G
4 the 1* Respondent
ತೆ

--- Page 2 ---
ರ ಜಾ
ತೆ Annexure D— Letter dated 20. 12,2023 from the 5)
4 Respondent
Annexure 1) — Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima ioe ೩(
Yojana Scheme document
Annexure El — PMFBY Revamped
ಸಗ $9- <2)
Operational Guidelines
Annexure F — Letter dated 26.07.2022 from the
Petitioner to the 3"! Respondent ಭಾ
Annexure G — Letter 12.07.2023 from the 84.
4-೫6
Respondent
» 13. | Annexure H — Official Memorandum dated
18.07.2023 issued by the Tahsildar, Challakere| 216
. taluk
Annexure J — Letter dated 01.08.2023 from the
21>
34 Respondent
15. | Annexure K — Letter dated 08.08.2023 from the ೨/೪
40 Respondeyt
16. | Annexure L — Show Cause Notice dated ೨.1 4
11.08.2023 issued by the 34 Respondent
17. | Annexure M — Response dated 22.08.2023 from
the Petitioner 0 ೯23,
Annexure N —[etter dated 15.09.2023 from the
im 24 Respondent ಷೈ 7

--- Page 3 ---
rs ಹ
ea ee
3 19. | Annexure P — Response dated 03.11.2023 from
‘ the Petitioner 235-244
20. | Annexure Q—Letter dated 07.11.2023 from the
1* Respondent 2೬1
21. | Annexure R — Letter dated 11.11.2023 from the
Petitioner 2.3
Annexure S — Letter dated 19.12.2023 from the b
4th Respondent
23, | Annexure T— Letter dated 19.12.2023 from the f
34 Respondent
ಕ್ಕ Annexure V — Order dated 20.01.2024 in 248
Criminal Petition No. 589 of 2024
25. | Vakalatnama and Authorisation Letter of the 24 4
me
Petitioner apg Gucorpandton 6 uae
26. | Application seeking dispensation with
production of certified copies of Annexures A, B, 2
C, ೮1, andp
. BANGALORE (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
i 10. .01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER

--- Page 4 ---
_
; 0)
ಜೆ IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
(ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
: WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
BETWEEN:
Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS ಕ
SYNOPSIS
: DATE EVENT
i 2016— | The central government promulgated the Pradhan
Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana Scheme to provide for
insurance to farmers
15.09.2020 — | The Petitioner was selected by the Department of
Agriculture, State of Karnataka as an Implementing
‘kency to provide insurance in certain districts, one
of which was Chitradurga for the Kharif and Rabi
seasons for the years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23.
26.07.2022 — | The Petitioner wrote to the 3™ Respondent Joint
Director of Agriculture Chitradurga requesting the
° authorities to participate in the joint survey to be
conducted for intimations of crop loss it had received
7 from insured farmers for the Kharif season 2022.

--- Page 5 ---
: *
ov
et a i.  - —< 3 .
27.06.2023 — |The 24 Respondent Deputy Commissioner, |
Chitradurga issued an Official Memorandum | Z
constituting a committee (comprising public officials) |
to examine allegations made by farmers regarding |
misuse of funds that were paid out under the Scheme.
18.07.2023 — | A representative of the Petitioner along with the
appointed government officials visited Mahadevpura
village panchayat in order to have discussions with
the farmers in respect of the grievances raised by
them pertaining to the claim settlement during Kharif
Season 2022.
01.08.2023 — |The 3" Respondent Joint Director wrote to the
Petitioner alleging irregularities in payment of i
= compensation to farmers and called on it to submit a A
report.
08.08.2023 — | The 411 Respondent Assistant Director of Agriculture,
Chitradurga conveyed to the 3% Respondent Joint
Director the report drawn up by the earlier-mentioned
committee.
11.08.2023 — | The 3 Respondent Joint Director issued a Show
Cause Notice to the Petitioner alleging discrepancies
in the records of the insured farmers and
irregularities in payment of the compensation and
called for a response within three days. .
22.08.2023 — | The Petitioner responded to the 3% Respondent Joint
Director with a detailed explanation concerning all |
the allegations made in the Show Cause Notice and

--- Page 6 ---
ತಾ = =
೦೨
. how it had acted in good faith and strictly in
accordance with its stipulated role under the Scheme
೬ and its Guidelines. |
01.09.2023 — | The ೫% Respondent Joint Director conveyed to the 2nd |
Respondent Deputy Commissioner the report of the
committee and baselessly quantified an amount of Rs.
83. 10 lakhs alleging misuse of the same by the
Petitioner through insurance payouts.
15.09.2023 — | The 21% Respondent Deputy Commissioner addressed
a letter to the 1* Respondent Commissioner of
Agriculture alleging that the Petitioner had misused
an amount of Rs. 83.10 lakhs and that action should
s be taken according to law.
03.11.2023 — | The Petitioner once again wrote to the 3! Respondent
. Joint Director providing a detailed explanation in
response to the allegations made in respect of the
purported irregularities in payment of claim
compensation to farmers.
07.11.2023 — |The 1* Respondent Commissioner of Agriculture
"| wrote to the Petitioner seeking clarifications on
: various points concerning the assessment of crop loss
and payment of insurance claims.
11.11.2023 - |The Petitioner wrote to the 1* Respondent —
Commissioner providing an update on its efforts and
. accomplishments in respect of the claim payments
made to the farmers during Kharif Season 2022 as
° well as how the claim intimations were received on
the toll-free number and the designated web link and

--- Page 7 ---
. A
೧೮
that the entire process was carried out in accordance ‘
with the stipulated procedure.
17.11.2023 — | The 1% Respondent Commissioner wrote to the 34
Respondent Joint Director forming a summary |
opinion that the Petitioner had disbursed insurance
payouts to the tune of Rs. 83.10 lakhs even though
there were discrepancies in the details of the
registered farmers' lands and crops grown, and
directed that action be taken against the Petitioner.
19.12.2023 — | On this date, two events occurred:
+ The 1 Respondent — Commissioner wrote to the
3 Respondent Joint Director alleging that there
was discrimination in distribution of the insurance
: compensation towards crop loss during the Kharif’ A
Season 2022 in Mahadevpura village, Chitradurga
district and that an amount of Rs. 83.10 lakhs was
recoverable from the Petitioner.
+ Basis the above, the 81 Respondent Joint Director
ತ addressed a letter to the 4th Respondent Assistant
Director alleging that the Petitioner had
unilaterally conducted the survey in violation of
the Guidelines and that an amount of Rs. 83.10
lakhs was to be recovered from the Petitioner and
repaid to the government.
* The 10 Respondent Assistant Director directed an
official of the Raitha Samparka Kendra,
ಸ
si Ee

--- Page 8 ---
im A
0S
ತ Parashurampura to initiate action against the

. Petitioner.

7 20.12.2023 — |The 3" Respondent Joint Director wrote to the
Petitioner alleging that the Petitioner had 7
unilaterally surveyed the lands in violation of the |
Guidelines and that an amount of Rs. 83.10 lakhs was
recoverable from the Petitioner in respect of the claim
payouts made in the inquiry report. The Petitioner
was directed to deposit the said amount of Rs. 83.10
101115 in a particular bank account.

21.12.2023 — | Acting on the direction received on 19.12.2023, the
concerned official of the Raitha Samparka Kendra,
Parashurampura lodged a complaint with the
i : Parashurampura Police Station, Chitradurga against
ಹೆ a representative of the Petitioner due to which an FIR
was registered in Crime No. 0181/2023 against said
representative for the offence punishable under

Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
16.01.2024 — | The representative of the Petitioner against whom the
wee FIR above was registered filed Criminal Petition No.
589 of 2024 challenging the initiation of criminal

proceedings against him.

20.01.2024 — | This Hon'ble Court — accepting the arguments of the
petitioner's representative in the Criminal Petition and

. noting that for all issues concerning the Scheme, its
implementation and grievances, there is an inbuilt

5 mechanism that provides remediation and these

options were not even resorted to by the Respondents

--- Page 9 ---
: a
64
— granted a stay on further proceedings pursuant to ತ
the registration of the FIR by an Order dated
20.01.2024 in the Criminal Petition. ಷ್ಣ
This stay continues to be in effect as on the date of
filing this writ petition.
BRIEF FACTS
1. The summarised facts leading to the presentation of this petition
| are below:
a. The central government of this country promulgated the Pradhan
Mantri Fasal Bhima Yojana Scheme (“Scheme”) to provide insurance
coverage for farmers pan-India in the event of crop losses. This scheme °
| is implemented in each state through insurance companies, such as the
Petitioner, who are empanelled for this purpose. Each state is divided .
into clusters and each insurance company is allotted a few clusters,
which cover certain districts, in which they insure farmers. The
premium payment is split between the farmers, the state government,
and the central government. The entire relationship between the
stakeholders is a creation of the scheme. Its working and all aspects
onserning assessment of loss, disbursement of payment, and redressal
of grievances are governed solely by its accompanying Revamped
Operation Guidelines (“Guidelines”)
b. For the Kharif and Rabi seasons of 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23, the
Petitioner was selected as the Implementing Agency in three clusters in ಹ
Karnataka. The relevant cluster for this petition is Cluster 5 which
includes the district of Chitradurga. When heavy rainfall destroyed ಈ
crops in the Kharif season of 2022, the Petitioner received claim

--- Page 10 ---
ಹ್‌ re
>
intimations from 161 farmers in Chitradurga through the toll-free

. number and designated web-link.

. ce. In accordance with the Guidelines, the Petitioner informed the 3
Respondent Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga of the claims
raised and asked it to participate in the joint surveys to be conducted
along with the concerned farmers. However, citing busy schedules and
non-availability of manpower, the Respondents abstained from
participating. Left with no choice, and as time is of the essence when
assessing damaged crops, the Petitioner appointed loss assessors who
surveyed the crops along with the claimant-farmers. On completion of
the assessment, the Petitioner disbursed payments to eligible farmers
strictly in accordance with the Scheme and its Guidelines.

7 d. Out of the blue, and a year later, on 27.06.2023, the 214 Respondent,
Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga issued an Official Memorandum, in

೬ furtherance of a public discussion that was purportedly held on
23.06.2023, constituting a committee that was to look into alleged
irregularities in disbursal of payments as well as issues concerning
coverage of crops and insurance of farmers.
The Petitioner, however, was not notified of the public discussion held on
23.06.2023 nor was it made a part of said committee.

e. Tn July 2023, however, the Joint Director informed the Petitioner and
certain other public officials that a meeting was to be conducted with
affected farmers in Mahadevapur village, Chitradurga in the same
month to address their issues. The Petitioner participated in said

. meeting with the relevant officials.

: f. In August 2023, following the above meeting, the Joint Director wrote to

the Petitioner alleging irregularities in the disbursal of claim payments

--- Page 11 ---
. A
08
and called for a report. Simultancously, the 45% Respondent Assistant ಇ
Director of Agriculture conveyed a report to the Joint Director alleging
that the aforesaid committee found irregularities in the details and |
number of farmers covered, crops insured, and payments disbursed.
Again, the Petitioner's representatives were never part of said committee
nor its investigations nor the formation of the report.
g. In the same month, the Joint Director issued a Show Cause Notice to the
Petitioner in respect of the baseless allegations and the Petitioner
responded in detail with clarifications and explanations concerning how
the entire process works and that all entitlements were determined and
payments were made in accordance with the mandate of the Guidelines,
h. Then, in September 2023, the Joint Director wrote to the Deputy °
Commissioner, Chitradurga alleging various irregularities in the
" assessment and payment process alleging that the Petitioner had >
misused an amount of Rs. 83.10 Lakhs and opined that this amount
ought to be recovered from the Petitioner. Following this, said Deputy
Commissioner wrote to the 13೯ Respondent Commissioner of Agriculture,
Karnataka stating that an amount of Rs. 83.10 Lakhs was to be
recovered from the Petitioner.
೫
i In November 2023, the Petitioner again wrote to the authorities
explaining, in detail, how the claims were intimated, how the loss was
assessed, how the details of farmers and crops were verified, and how
the payments were disbursed. Inspite of multiple clarifications offered
by the Petitioner, the Respondent-authorities corresponded between
themselves and to the Petitioner making it a scapegoat in order to .
recover Rs. 83.10 Lakhs from it. F
ತಃ

--- Page 12 ---
೫ =
6)
J. Finally, on 19.12.2023, the 4 Respondent Assistant Director of
. Agriculture, on directions from his superiors, directed an official of the
as local Raitha Samparka Kendra to initiate action against the Petitioner.
Based on this, said official lodged a complaint and an FIR dated
21.32.2028 was registered in Crime No. 0181/2023 in the
Parashuramapura Police Station, Thalaku Circle, Chitradurga for the
offence punishable under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
against an employee of the Petitioner, one Mr. Balaraju P. C., who is the
Regional Representative.
k. Aggrieved, said employee challenged the initiation of the investigation
before this Hon'ble Court in Criminal Petition No. 589 of 2024. This
Hon'ble Court, by an Order dated 20.01.2024, stayed further
investigation, noting that the Guidelines itself specify a mechanism for
8 redressal of grievances by any stakeholder under the Scheme and that the
Respondents had not availed any option under the grievance redressal
. mechanism. This order, as on the date of presentation of this petition,
continues to be in effect.
1. As depicted above, the Respondents abdicated their duty and did not
participate in the survey to assess loss and left the entire exercise to the
Petitioner, The Petitioner, in fulfilment of its duty under the Scheme,
ಗೂ with its mandate and the Guidelines in assessing loss and
payment of claims. However, certain baseless allegations were raised
against the Petitioner concerning the entire process which was only
when the Respondents sprung into action to cover up their lapses. In
order to demonstrate that some concrete steps were being taken — in
. response to the meritless, undocumented, and proofless allegations —
the Respondents cooked up an amount of Rs. 83.10 Lakhs to be recovered
. from the Petitioner and directed an official of the local Raitha Samparka
to initiate criminal proceedings against the Petitioner.

--- Page 13 ---
al
10
m. Additionally, the Guidelines that govern the central government, the .
| State governments, the district level authorities, the insurance
providers, and the insured farmers specify a detailed and proper method 7
: of grievance redressal at the district level followed by multiple appellate
levels as well as a state-level mechanism for any stakeholder under the
Scheme — which includes the Respondents — to seek redress of any
issue arising from, or concerning, the Scheme and its coverage and
financial restitution of insured farmers.
n. Wholeheartedly ignoring the foundational Scheme and its controlling
Guidelines, as well as the provided grievance redressal mechanism, the
Respondents have baselessly initiated action to arm-twist the Petitioner
50 as to recover an amount of Rs. 83.10 Lakhs which was paid by the
Petitioner entirely and solely out of its own funds to suffering farmers |
who lost their crops.
o. The actions of the Respondents are ultra vires the Scheme and its `
Guidelines and were performed in marked violation of multiple
constitutional safeguards. Apart from this, and although such actions
are without justification and substantiating evidence and beyond the
bounds of their clearly defined roles under the Guidelines, the
Respondents have converted the same into harassment of the Petitioner
“god its employees under the garb of recovery of money and initiation of
criminal proceedings, all with a view to cover up their dereliction of. duty
and failings in following the mandate of the Guidelines and abdication
of the duty cast on them by the Scheme.
p. Left with no other recourse in the face of continuing demonstrated ಡಿ
harassment, and given that the explanations and clarifications offered
have fallen on deaf ears, the Petitioner is before this Hon'ble Court =
seeking relief through this petition. :

--- Page 14 ---
ಕ |
| 2. Through this petition, the Petitioner seeks the following reliefs:
a. Quashing of Annexure A — Official Memorandum dated 27.06.2023 by
ಷಃ which the 294 Respondent Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga, with no
authority in law or under the Scheme, constituted an inquiry committee
to investigate issues concerning assessment of crop loss and insurance
payouts in Mahadevapura, Chitradurga;
b. Quashing of Annexure B — Report dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the 3"
Respondent Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga in which it was
baselessly alleged that the Petitioner had caused loss of Rs. 83.10 Lakhs
through mishandling of the crop loss assessment procedure and
insurance disbursal;
ec. Quashing of Annexures C and 01 — Letters dated 17.11.2023 and
= 19.12.2023, respectively, issued by the 1* Respondent Commissioner of
ತ Agriculture, Karnataka directing that Rs. 83.10 Lakhs was to be
recovered from the Petitioner;
d. Quashing of Annexure D — Letter dated 20.12.2023 issued by the 3"
Respondent Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga to the Petitioner
to deposit Rs. 83.10 Lakhs in a bank account;
ಅಸಿ.” Permanent restraint of the Respondents from acting on and pursuant to
the five documents mentioned above.
3. The grounds, summarised, on which this Hon’ble Court is
petilioned are below:
ss a. The constitution of the inquiry committee by the Deputy Commissioner
and all consequent actions are ultra vires the Scheme and the Revamped
Operational Guidelines that govern this issue.
ea

--- Page 15 ---
A
[o=
b. The actions of the Respondents violate the freedoms and protections .
granted to the Petitioner by Articles 14, 19(1)(g), 21, 300A, and 301 of
the Constitution of India. .
c. The Petitioner carried out the assessment and made payments in
compliance with the Scheme and the Guidelines but the Respondents
did not participate and are now trying to cover up their lapses with the
initiation of jurisdictionally defective and criminal proceedings.
d. The Petitioner has not misused funds nor does it benefit in any way from
the payment of insurance claims.
e, The Scheme set up by the central government is being rendered
redundant by the Respondents due to their actions which, in turn,
impacts the ability of insurance providers to insure farmers. -
BENGALURU (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
(೮. .01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER
ಹ

--- Page 16 ---
Ee
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
ಇ (ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
BETWEEN:
Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited
Office address: 8th Floor, Commerz,
International Business Park, Oberoi
Garden City, Off Western Express
Highway, Goregaon East, Mumbai — 400063
Rep. by: Pushpashil Karve,
Senior Manager-Legal and Compliance Petsdsomey
and Authorised signatory “7
೬ ನ Aet 1356
; (೮೧೦ ಗ್ರಾ ಗಂ! Companys +
AND:
1. Commissioner of Agriculture, Karnataka,
Central College, 1, Seshadri Road
Near KR Circle, Opposite SJP College,
Ambedkar Veedhi Bengaluru, Karnataka — 560 009
ಪಾಕ
2. Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga,
Office of the Deputy Commissioner,
Onake Obawva Circle, Chitradurga -577 501
3. Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga,
. Office of Joint Director of Agriculture,
F APMC Yard Road, Chitradurga — 577 501
4. Assistant Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga,

--- Page 17 ---
“A
MF
Office of Additional Director of Agriculture.
APMC Yard Road, Chitradurga - 577 501 RESPONDENTS |
MEMORANDUM OF WRIT PETITION UNDER ARTICLES 226
AND 227 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF INDIA
The above-named Petitioner submits as follows:
1. The address of the Petitioner for the purpose of service of notice and
processes of this Hon'ble Court, apart from that which is mentioned in
the cause-title, shall be of its counsel: Preetham Jude Correa,
“Maruthi Krupa”, No. 4, 9% ‘A’ Cross, Kumara Park West,
Railway Parallel Road, Bangalore - 560 020.
2. The addresses of the Respondents, for service of notice and processes =
- of this Hon'ble Court, are as shown in the cause title,
3. Through this petition, the Petitioner seeks the following
reliefs:
a. Quashing of Annexure A — Official Memorandum dated 27.06.2023 by
which the 24 Respondent Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga
constituted an inquiry committee to investigate issues concerning
on” assessment of crop loss and insurance payouts in Mahadeyapura,
Chitradurga;
b. Quashing of Annexure B — Report dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the
85 Respondent Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga in which it
was baselessly alleged that the Petitioner had caused loss of Rs. 83.10
Lakhs through mishandling of the crop loss assessment procedure and
insurance disbursal; ಈ
¢. Quashing of Annexures C and Cl — Letters dated 17.11.2023 and
19.12.2023, respectively, issued by the 1* Respondent Commissioner
oie fhe

--- Page 18 ---
— = -
VS:
of Agriculture, Karnataka directing that Rs. 83.10 Lakhs was to be
. recovered from the Petitioner;
‘ d. Quashing of Annexure D — Letter dated 20.12.2023 issued by the 34
Respondent Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga to the
Petitioner directing it to deposit Rs. 83.10 Lakhs in a bank account;

e. Permanent restraint of the Respondents from acting on and pursuant
to the five documents mentioned above.

4. The grounds, summarised, on which this Hon'ble Court is
petitioned are:

a. The constitution of the inquiry committee by the Deputy
Commissioner, and all consequent action taken thereto, is ultra vires
the Scheme and the Revamped Operational Guidelines.

ಜಾ b. The actions of the Respondents violate the freedoms and protections
ಕ granted to the Petitioner by Articles 14, 19(1)(g), 21, 300A, and 301 of
the Constitution of India.

ce. The Petitioner carried out the assessment and made payments in
compliance with the Scheme and the Guidelines but the Respondents
did not participate and are now trying to cover up their lapses with the

al initiation of jurisdictionally defective and criminal proceedings.

d. The Petitioner has not misused funds nor does it benefit in any way

from the payment of insurance claims.
e. The Scheme set up by the central government is being rendered
a redundant by the Respondents due to their actions which, in turn,
impacts the ability of insurance providers to insure farmers.

--- Page 19 ---
lb ತ
FACTS AND BACKGROUND
5. The facts necessitating the filing of the present petition are
below: ಥೆ
a, In the year 2016, the Central Government promulgated the Pradhan
Mantri 178881 Bima Yojana (“Scheme”) to provide insurance cover to
the farmers in the event of loss or damage to their crops on account of
the insured perils as set out in the Scheme. (Scheme document
produced as ANNEXURE - E).
b. As per the Scheme, each state is divided into clusters consisting of
certain districts. The bids for providing insurance coverage are invited
by state governments from and amongst empanelled insurance
companies for each cluster within the state. Pursuant to a bidding
process, insurance companies with the lowest bid are selected as
Implementing Agencies for certain clusters in the state. ,
¢. The broad mechanism for the implementation of the Scheme is set out
in the Scheme document. The detailed mechanism for the
implementation of the Scheme is set out in the Revamped Operational
Guidelines (“Guidelines”) (Guidelines produced as ANNEXURE -
ED.
me d. By a Notification dated 15.09.2020 issued by the Department of
Agriculture, State of Karnataka, the Petitioner was selected as the
Implementing Agency in Cluster 3 consisting of Belagavi, Yadagiri,
| and Dakshina Kannada districts, Cluster 5 consisting of Kalaburgi,
| Chitradurga, and Ramanagara districts and Cluster 9 consisting of
Davangere, Bidar, and Kolar districts for Kharif and Rabi seasons for ಇಚ್‌
the years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23.
e. During the Kharif Season 2022, heavy rainfall occurred in several
parts of the State of Karnataka including Cluster 5 consisting of
Kalaburgi, Chitradurga, and Ramanagara districts. The Petitioner
s |

--- Page 20 ---
ಸ್ಯ =
(೧
received claim intimations — from 161 farmers in Chitradurga district
. in respect of the alleged damage caused to the crops — on its toll-free
number and the designated web link.
f£ As per the Guidelines, the loss suffered by a farmer is to be jointly
assessed by a team comprising of:
+ a loss assessor appointed by the insurance company,
* the block-level agriculture officer and
* the concerned farmer.
g. The Petitioner, vide its letter of 26.07.2022 to the 3™ Respondent —
Joint Director, requested the authorities to participate in the joint
survey to be conducted for loss assessment (Letter dated 26.07.2022
produced as ANNEXURE - F).
i h. However, the Petitioner did not receive any written communication or
A response from the authorities. Instead, the Petitioner was orally
informed by the concerned district and taluka officials that on account
of their busy schedules and lack of sufficient manpower, it would not
be possible for them to participate in the joint survey. 1
i. The Petitioner was left with no choice but to proceed with the
- assessment as time is of the essence when surveying damaged crops
which are naturally and easily perishable. Despite the high-handed
and negligent approach adopted by the authorities, the Petitioner
surveyed the individual lands of the farmers who had submitted their
claims through loss assessors appointed by it.
.
i: It is important to note, at this juncture, that the claimant-farmers were ಹ
also present for and during the survey.
ಶ್ರ j. Pursuant to the survey, the Petitioner disbursed payments to the
eligible farmers in respect of their losses in accordance with the
mechanism set out in the Guidelines.
|

--- Page 21 ---
13 .
k. An entire year later, it should be noted, on 27.06.2023, the 284
Respondent — Deputy Commissioner issued an Official Memorandum .
in respect of purported issues faced by farmers in Chitradurga district =
concerning disbursal of insurance payouts (Official Memorandum
produced as ANNEXURE - A). By said memorandum, the Deputy
Commissioner constituted a committee (comprising public officials) in
furtherance of discussions that were purportedly held on 23.06.2023,
to examine the allegations regarding misuse of funds that were paid
out under the Scheme. This committee was seemingly constituted to
look into the allegations and submit a report on the details of crops
grown in the concerned fields, the registration of insured farmers, and
the consequent pay-outs to such insured farmers during Kharif Season
2022-
It is pertinent to note that none of the representatives of the Petitioner ;
were present at the meeting that was supposed to have been conducted
‘on 23.06.2023 when the discussions were held or at the time when the ಕ
decision was taken for the constitution of the committee. Further, none
of the representatives of the Petitioner are, or were made, members of
said committee. =
1 On 12.07.2023, the 3" Respondent — Joint Director addressed a letter
| to the Additional Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga informing him
= that a meeting of certain officials of the Revenue Department,
Agriculture Department, Horticultural Department, and
representatives of the Petitioner was scheduled on 18.07.2023 at
Mahadevpura village panchayat (Letter dated 12.07.2023 produced as
ANNEXURE - ೧), .
3
| m. On 18.07.2023, a representative of the Petitioner along with the above-
named government officials visited Mahadevpura village panchayat in ನ
order to have discussions with the farmers in respect of the grievances
raised by them pertaining to the claim settlement during Kharif

--- Page 22 ---
ಕಂ
9
Season 2022. The Tahsildar of Challakere Taluka issued an Official
ಜಾ Memorandum recording that the officials had visited Mahadevpura
village panchayat on the same date (Official Memorandum produced
8 as ANNEXURE - H).
1. On 01.08.2023, the 3"! Respondent — Joint Director wrote to the
Petitioner alleging that there were irregularities in the payment of
compensation to the farmers in Chitradurga district during Kharif
Season 2022 and directed the Petitioner to submit a report (Letter
dated 01.08.2023 produced as ANNEXURE - J).
o. On 08.08.2023, the 4" Respondent — Assistant Director wrote to the 3°
Respondent — Joint Director enclosing a report with the findings of the
inquiry that was conducted by the earlier-stated committee (Letter
dated 08.08.2023 produced as ANNEXURE - K). Said report alleged
ತ that (i) compensation was paid by the Petitioner in 62 cases wherein
the land of the farmer was fallow, (ii) compensation was paid by the
. Petitioner in 14 cases where the compensation was claimed for the loss
of groundnut crop but a crop other than groundnut was sown by the
farmer, (iii) compensation was paid more than once by the Petitioner .
in 32 cases and (iv) compensation was paid by the Petitioner in 10 cases
where the claim was registered by a person other than the account
om holder. This report was the outcome of an inquiry that was conducted
by the members of the committee.
Said report incorrectly records that representatives of the Petitioner
were a part of the team which conducted the investigation on
28.07.2023. In reality, none of the representatives of the Petitioner were =
. part of the investigations carried out by the government officials and/ 3
or the preparation of the report.
° p. On 11.08.2023, the 31 Respondent - Joint Director issued a Show-
cause Notice to the Regional Head of the Petitioner (SCN produced as
| ಇಷು

--- Page 23 ---
ry
99
ANNEXURE - 1). In said Notice. it was contended, inter alia, that the
Assistant Director of Agriculture, Agriculture Officer Parashurampur, =
Police  Sub-Inspector 4 Parashurampur, Deputy = Tahsildar,
Parashurampur, Revenue Inspector, Parashurampur, Village `
Accountant Parashurampur, Village Accountant Parashurampur and
Village Accountant Pagadalabande visited the lands of the farmers and
observed certain discrepancies/ deficiencies in respect of the number of
farmers insured, the land that was registered, and the crops that were
grown which were set out in the report. A copy of the report was
furnished to the Petitioner along with the said letter and the Petitioner
was called upon to provide its response within a period of three days.
q. On 22.08.2023, the Petitioner responded to the 3" Respondent — Joint
Director with a detailed explanation concerning the allegations made
in the above detailed Show Cause Notice (Response produced as |
ANNEXURE - 11). The Petitioner explained how it had received claim
intimations from the farmers through the Bot system (helpline number 5
and the weblink) and that loss assessment was done as per the
Guidelines. In respect of the allegations pertaining to the payments
made to farmers for fallow lands, the Petitioner stated that as per the ಡಿ
survey conducted by the loss assessors, it was observed that groundnut
crops were sown by the farmers who had suffered losses. Further, in
2 respect of the allegations of payment of compensation more than once
to the farmers, the Petitioner clarified that during the previous data
submission, the survey numbers were not mentioned as per the land
records. However, the same was verified by the Petitioner and detailed
information in this regard was set out in said letter. The Petitioner also ಭ್ರ
made detailed submissions in respect of the allegations made for x
mismatch in the names of the landowners.
1 On 01.09.2023, the 3% Respondent -- Joint Director wrote to the 24 .
Respondent — Deputy Commissioner enclosing a report of the
committee's findings and alleged that the Petitioner had misused an

--- Page 24 ---
a 21

amount of Rs. 83,10,002/- (Rupees Eighty-Three Lakhs Ten-Thousand

. and Two only) in respect of insurance payments to farmers (Letter
dated 01.09.2023 produced as ANNEXURE - B). Said report

. baselessly contended that the (i) compensation was paid by the
Petitioner in 80 cases wherein the crop insurance was given for crops
other than the registered crop, (ii) compensation was paid by the
Petitioner in 11 cases where the compensation was claimed by a person
other than a registered account holder in case of fallow land and (iii)
compensation was paid by the Petitioner in 2 cases where the claim
was registered by a person other than the account holder.
Said Report also incorrectly records that representatives of the
Petitioner were a part of the team which conducted the investigation on
25.07.2023. No representatives of the Petitioner were part of the
investigations carried oul by the government officials and/or the

. preparation of the report.

, 8. On 15.09.2023, the 284 Respondent - Deputy Commissioner addressed
a letter to the 1% Respondent -- Commissioner of Agriculture alleging
that the Petitioner had misused an amount of Rs.83,10,002/- (Rupees >
Kighty-Three Lakhs Ten-Thousand and Two only) and recommended
that action should be taken according to law (Letter dated 15.09.2023
produced as ANNEXURE - N). Said letter sets out the details of the
officers who formed part of the team that conducted the investigation.
It is pertinent to note that no representative of the Petitioner was a
member of said committee.

« On 03.11.2023, the Petitioner again wrote to the 34 Respondent —Joint ಕ್ಟ
೫ Director providing a detailed explanation in response to the allegations
made in respect of the purported irregularities in payment of claim
. compensation to farmers in Mahadevapura village (Response produced
as ANNEXURE -— P). The Petitioner explained how it had received
claim intimations from farmers through the Bot system (helpline
4

--- Page 25 ---
Q2- ತ

number and the weblink) and that the assessment was done as per the

Guidelines. Concerning the allegation made regarding compensation ಈ
for fallow lands, the Petitioner stated that as per the survey conducted

by the loss assessors, it was observed that the groundnut crop was `
sown by the said farmers which had suffered loss on account of heavy

rainfall. The Petitioner also made detailed submissions in respect of

the allegations made for mismatch in the names of the landowner.

೫. On 07.11.2023, the 1* Respondent - Commissioner of Agriculture

wrote to the Petitioner alleging that as per the investigation conducted

by the committee formed by the District Collector, Chitradurga, out of

161 intimations, 93 intimations received from the farmers in

Mahadevpura village were not genuine (Letter dated 07.11.2023

produced as ANNEXURE - ಲ). By said letter, the 1% Respondent —
Commissioner sought clarifications from the Petitioner in respect of (i) .
the mode of receipt of claim intimations from farmers in the said

insurance unit, (ii) the documents in respect of the intimations received “i
from farmers on modes other than on toll free number, (iii) the details

of loss assessors appointed by the Petitioner, (iv) whether the loss

assessors possessed the requisite qualifications as set out in Clause >
21.5.6.1 of the Revamped Operational Guidelines, (v) whether the

survey in respect of the claims intimations received was conducted in

accordance with Clause 21.65.10 of the Revamped Operational

Guidelines and (vi) the details of the survey done and the weather data

of the insurance unit within a period of five working days.

0. On 11.11.2023, the Petitioner wrote to the 1 Respondent —

Commissioner providing an update on its efforts and accomplishments ಹ =

in respect of the claim payments made to the farmers during Kharif -
Season 2022 as well as how the claim intimations were received on the
toll-free number and the designated web link (Response produced as “|
ANNEXURE - 10). The Petitioner explained how it had appointed
surveyors in accordance with the criteria as set out in Clause 21.5.6.1

--- Page 26 ---
hk ಕಾ
of the Guidelines and that the loss assessment was conducted in the
. accordance with the stipulated timelines as set out in Clause 2.5.10.
The Petitioner also furnished the details of the survey carried out and
| the weather data as sought by the authorities.
w. On 17.11.2023, the 1* Respondent ~ Commissioner wrote to the 34
Respondent — Joint Director forming a summary opinion that the
Petitioner had disbursed insurance payouts to the tune of Rs. 83.10
lakhs even though there were discrepancies in the details of the
registered farmers' lands and crops grown, and directed that action be
taken against the Petitioner (Letter dated 17.11.2023 produced as
ANNEXURE - 0).
x. On 19.12.2023, the 3™ Respondent — Joint Director addressed a letter
to the 418 Respondent — Assistant Director alleging that the Petitioner
* had unilaterally conducted the survey in violation of the Guidelines
and that an amount of Rs. 83.10 lakhs was to be recovered from the
. Petitioner and repaid to the government (Letter of the 3 Respondent
dated 19.12.2023 produced as ANNEXURE — 5) based on a letter
received on the same date from the 1 Respondent — Commissioner .
alleging that there was discrimination in distribution of the insurance
compensation towards crop loss during the Kharif Season 2022 in
Mahadevpura village, Chitradurga district and that an amount of Rs.
83.10 lakhs was recoverable from the Petitioner (Letter of the 1*
Respondent dated 19.12.2023 produced as ANNEXURE - C1).
y-On the same date, ie. 19.12.2023, and acting on the letter received
from the 3 Respondent — Joint Director, the 4% Respondent — ತ್ರ
Assistant Director instructed one Mr. 5. 11. Jeevan, Raitha Samparka
Kendra, Parasharampura to initiate Proceedings against the
ಈ Petitioner (Letter of the 4th Respondent dated 19.12.2023 produced as
ANNEXURE - 7).
[

--- Page 27 ---
a
24
2. On 20.12.2023, the 3" Respondent — Joint Director wrote to the
Petitioner alleging that the Petitioner had unilaterally surveyed the ©
181105 in violation of the Guidelines and that an amount of Rs. 83.10
lakhs was recoverable from the Petitioner in respect of the claim .
payouts made in 93 cases mentioned in the inquiry report. The
Petitioner was directed to deposit the said amount of Rs, 83.10 lakhs
in a particular bank account, the details whereof were set out in said
letter (Letter dated 20.12.2023 produced as ANNEXURE - ಐ).
aa. The Petitioner is in the process of addressing a detailed letter
to the authorities in this regard and this document will be
produced in due course.
&. However, for reasons that cannot not stand judicial scrutiny and are
outwardly against all canons of justice, the Respondents are using the
factual history laid out above to harass the Petitioner through the .
- misuse of legal remedies and investigation agencies, one example of mn
which necessitated the filing of Criminal Petition No. 589 of 2024
before this Hon'ble Court (“Criminal Petition”).
7. The facts leading to the presentation of said Criminal Petition are
below:
a. On 21.12.2023, the aforesaid S. R. Jeevan, Agriculture Officer,
Parashurampura acted on the instructions received from the 40
Respondent — Assistant Director on 19.12.2023 and lodged a complaint
with the Parashuramapura Police Station, Talaku Circle, Chitradurga,
making the following false and frivolous allegations against the
Petitioner: ೩
ಡಿ 3
¢ For the monsoon season of 2022-23, some farmers complained to
the Deputy Commissioner's office and to the office of the Joint .
Director of Agriculture in June, 2023 alleging discrimination in
payment of crop insurance and that only a handful of farmers were

--- Page 28 ---
i 95
paid the insurance money and that the money was paid to someone
. other than the account holders. A committee was formed to
investigate and submit a report on the alleged malpractices in the
crop insurance settlement.
+ Said committee held meetings on 18.07.2023 and 25.07.2023 at
Mahadevpura village and it was found that there was apparently
a misdemeanour that was committed. A team comprising officials
of the Agricultural Department and the Petitioner was instructed
to investigate and submit a report regarding the location-specific
natural calamities and post-harvest natural calamities.
+ The representatives of the Petitioner — company, Mr. Maresh
(Manager) and Mr. Balaraju P. C. (Provincial Representative) were
present in the said meeting and were requested to give a report
about the distribution of crop insurance compensation in
é Mahadevpura village. In Mahadevpura village, 1012 farmers have
registered for insurance, out of which 19 farmers have reported
| that 145 farmers have received a total compensation of Rs 136.59
lakh in post-harvest losses under local calamities. It was suggested ;
that the Petitioner submits a list of farmers for whom the
distribution of erop insurance has been settled and the date of field
visits for site inspections. In order to conduct a thorough inspection
of the fields concerned, a team comprising officials of the |
Agricultural Department, the Revenue Department and the
Petitioner was constituted.
¢ On 31.07.2023 and 03.08.2023, said team visited the spots in
Mahadevpura Grama and ascertained details of the crops grown
for 2022-23, details of the khatedars and farmers insured under the +
. Petitioner. According to the report drawn up by this team, in 62 ~
cases land was registered as fallow land and Rs. 50 lakhs was paid
- as insurance, in 14 cases Rs.14 lakhs was paid as insurance and in
10 cases Rs. 14 lakhs was paid as insurance. As representatives of
the Petitioner did not provide information about the date of the
ಸ |

--- Page 29 ---
0
24
field visit for loss verification and the details of the participants of
the survey, the team submitted a report to the 3! Respondent `
alleging misuse of crop insurance, including unregistered crops ಬ
being grown and insurance compensation being paid for the same.
In addition, insurance was paid to individuals who were not
insured with the Petitioner. The total amount thus paid was
Rs.83.10 lakhs and this was done in violation of the crop insurance
guidelines.
* As per a report submitted to the 3"! Respondent, compensation by
the Petitioner was paid in (i) 80 cases where crops other than
registered crop were grown and the said claims pertained to fallow
land, (ii) 11 cases registered under the name of the person other
than the account holder and (111) crops other than the registered
crops were grown.
* The Petitioner has violated the Scheme and the Guidelines and has ಈ
conducted a one-sided survey and not a joint survey, and thereby
committed fraud in disbursal of compensation to farmers, The 3! .
Respondent was directed by the 1 Respondent to take action
against the Petitioner. In furtherance thereof, the 4! Respondent
appointed S. R. Jeevan, Agricultural Officer, Raitha Samparka
Kendra to file a complaint against the Petitioner.
+ The Petitioner, by conducting a unilateral survey in 93 cases,
defrauded the Government by paying compensation to farmers who
grew unregistered crops and to farmers who were not account
holders due to which the Respondents decided to initiate criminal
action against the Petitioner.
8. Following the Complaint, an FIR dated 21.12.2023 in Crime No.
0181/2023 was lodged in the Parashuramapura Police Station, Thalak
Circle, Chitradurga for the offence punishable under Section 420 of the ಷ್ಣ
Indian Penal Code, 1860 against Mr. Balaraju 7. C., the earlier-stated
Regional Representative (“FIR”).

--- Page 30 ---
he _
a
9. Naturally aggrieved by the registration of the FIR, said Mr. P. C.
as Balaraju challenged the same in the Criminal Petition seeking to have
the FIR filed against him quashed.
10.This Hon'ble Court — accepting the arguments of the petitioner’s
representative in the Criminal Petition and noting that for all
issues concerning the Scheme, its implementation and
grievances, there is an inbuilt mechanism that provides
Respondents — granted a stay on further proceedings pursuant to the
registration of the FIR by an Order dated 20.01.2024 in the Criminal
Petition (Order dated 20.01.2024 produced as ANNEXURE - V).
This Criminal Petition is sub-judice before this Hon'ble Court till date
and the order passed on 20.01.2021 continues to be in effect at the time
of filing this petition.

. 11.The actions of the Respondents in constituting the inquiry committee
and drawing up reports and acting on the same to initiate criminal
proceedings and illegally seek recovery of money is sans any basis in
Jaw and in violation of the Scheme and its Guidelines which alone
create and govern the entire relationship between all stakeholders and
the method of assessment and payment for crop losses. The Petitioner
is left with no other recourse than to challenge the afore-stated actions
of the Respondents through the instant petition on the grounds that
are set forth below and also on those that will be advanced during oral
arguments at the time of hearing.

ಇ

--- Page 31 ---
I
ve i
GROUNDS ON WHICH RELIEF IS SOUGHT
| «
| 12.The constitution of the inquiry committee by the Deputy
Commissioner and all consequent actions are ultra vires the .
Scheme and the Revamped Operational Guidelines:
a. The constitution of the committee on 27.06.2023 (Annexure A) by the
Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga for investigation of allegations of
purported discrimination in the crop insurance payment, and all action
| initiated thereto, is ultra vires the provisions of the Scheme (Annexure
87) and its Guidelines (Annexure 81) and sans any basis in law.
b. Firstly, Clause 21.5.10 of the Guidelines provides that any dispute in
respect of the process of the loss assessment survey or extent of
assessed loss can be raised by any stakeholder by giving a written
notice within 07 days to the Chairman-District Level Monitoring ಜ್‌
Committee (“DLMC”) with prooffdata/reports substantiating the
claim. ಶಿ
¢. It further provides that the DLMC should review the reports/evidence
and resolve the dispute within 07 days. In case the dispute is
unresolved, the affected stakeholder can make an appeal to State
Nodal Department, and thereafter to the State Technical Advisory
Committee (“STAC”), as per the process defined in the grievance
redressal mechanism.
d. Therefore, a first level of resolution along with two appellate levels
thereafter have been provided for. However, the Respondents have
ignored and bypassed the stipulated mechanism in order to pursue an .
unsanctioned course of action against the Petitioner. . |
e. Secondly, Clause 30 of the Guidelines provides for a grievance |
redressal mechanism. Clause 30.3 provides that in line with the
DLMC, there shall also be a District Grievance Redressal Committee
(‘DGRC’) to address grievances of stakeholders.
ats:

--- Page 32 ---
25)
f£. This DGRC will be headed by the District Magistrate/Collector and
. must have as its members representatives of farmers, Lead District
Manager (LDM/Banks, District Development Manager (DDM))
. NABARD, Insurance Company and concerned _District
Authority/Department (ie. Agriculture/Horticulture/ Cooperative/
Revenue/Agricultural Statistics etc.).

g. Thus, the DGRC is to be constituted with the District Magistrate as
the head of the committee and the representatives of the
aforementioned stakeholders as its members.

h. However, in ‘the present case, the investigation was’ initiated and |
carried out by a committee comprising solely of government officials
without any participation/ representation of any of the stakeholders i.e.

| the representatives of the Petitioner, banks, or the farmers in complete
violation of the mechanism as set out in the Guidelines. None of the

ಳಃ officers of the Petitioner were part of the committee which conducted
the investigation and this course of action adopted by the Respondents
is in complete violation of the Guidelines.

i. The Respondents never had, and still do not have, the power to
constitute a committee, draw up reports, act on them or direct the
initiation of criminal proceedings as was done by the concerned official
of the Raitha Samparka Kendra.

j. The DGRC is then given 15 days to dispose the matter. This decision
shall be accepted by all parties. In the event of disagreement with said
decision, an appeal lies to the State Level Grievance Redfessal

. Committee ("5೫ 07) within 15 days from the decision of the DGRC. It
is also provided that if the DGRC does not take a decision within 07
7 days from the dispute being presented to it, the dispute may be
presented directly to the SGRC.
| ji

--- Page 33 ---
Bo
k. Given that the genesis of the instant crop insurance arrangement is in
the Scheme and given that its operation and remediation of issues is .
controlled and governed by the Guidelines — under which the .
Respondents derive their limited authority and mandate to act — the
Respondents compulsorily must have availed the mechanism set out
and should not have stooped to harassment of the Petitioner by their
afore-stated actions. Without even glancing at the pre-determined
course of action to be implemented, the Respondents resorted to a
knee-jerk reaction by completely discarding the procedure of
remediation already given to them.
LAs the role and powers of the Respondents are provided for and 7:
controlled by the Scheme and its Guidelines, they are mandated to act
within the bounds of what is set out. Any transgression and trespass
beyond the limits of the granted jurisdiction and power cannot be -
allowed to continue to exist under the constitutional scheme of this
country which guards all persons, natural and juristic, against state =
action carried out without any basis in law.
m. The undisputable sequence of events narrated above necessitates that
this Hon'ble Court protects the Petitioner against the illegal and
arbitrary wielding of power by the Respondents.
| 13.The actions of the Respondents violate the freedoms and
protections granted to the Petitioner by Articles 14, 19(1)(g),
| 21, 300A, and 301 of the Constitution of India:
a. By their combined arbitrary executive actions, the Respondents have
disregarded constitutionally enshrined safeguards that exist and
operate in the Petitioner's favour. ನ 2
b. Established is the law of this land, as enunciated through consistent ಹ
judicial dicta, that any action of the state which infracts hallowed

--- Page 34 ---
21
constitutional ideals must not be allowed to survive, much less operate

. Sans passing constitutional muster.

೬ ¢. While Article 14 protects all equally before the law and grants equal
protection of the laws, Article 21 ineludes within its vast ambit the
right to livelihood and the right to free trade, profession, occupation,
and business coupled with right to freedom of trade, commerce, and
intercourse throughout the territory of India as conjointly guaranteed
by Articles 19(1)(g). Further, Article 300A definitively enjoins the
deprivation of any person of his property save by authority of law.

d. A cursory appreciation of the actions of the Respondents when
contrasted against the constitutionally guaranteed protections laid out
above, and the intended effects of the same, demonstrates a marked
deviation from permissible state action and the necessity of judicial

: intervention by this Hon'ble Court. On this substantial ground, the
impugned actions of the Respondents ought to be nipped in the bud as
‘ prayed for.

14. The Petitioner carried out the assessment and made payments
in compliance with the Scheme and the Guidelines — the
Respondents did not participate and are now trying to cover
up their lapses with the initiation of criminal proceedings:

a. The Guidelines (which came into effect from Kharif Season 2020)
provide a detailed mechanism for the implementation of the Scheme
including the procedure to be followed for the settlement of the claims

made by the farmers.
| b. Clause 21.5.6.3 of the Guidelines states that the loss of crops would be
jointly assessed by a team comprising the loss assessor appointed by

53 the insurer, the block level agriculture officer, and the concerned

farmer.

--- Page 35 ---
32-
c. However, in the present case, the government officials acted in a
completely high handed and negligent manner and did not participate .
in the joint surveys that were conducted despite repeated oral and .
written requests made by the Petitioner in this regard. This lack of
action on the part of the Respondents is in complete violation of the
responsibility and obligations cast on them under the Guidelines.
d. It is pertinent to note that the Guidelines provide for stipulated
timelines for the conduct of the loss assessment survey. As per the
provisions of Clause 21.5.7, the loss assessment survey is to be
completed within a period of 10 days from the date of receipt of the
claim intimation. Accordingly, and in fulfilment of its obligations
thereunder, the Petitioner was left with no option but to conduct the
1088 assessment survey in accordance with the stipulated mechanism.
e. Additionally, and in order to fulfil its duty, the Petitioner had sent an
updated list of the crops, the farmers who have complained about the 1
distribution of funds, and the names of the actual owners of the land
to both the Agricultural Department and the District Commissioner's
office in consonance with the procedure stipulated under the Scheme.
f£ At the same time, when members from the Department of Agriculture
and officials from the Deputy Commissioner's office visited the site for
investigation, the Petitioner was not intimated about the same.
g. During the processing of the claims, the Petitioner addressed letters to
the Department of Agriculture and the Deputy Commissioner's office
inviting them to participate in conducting a joint field 8797 during |
duly and August of 2023 which can be referenced in the communication ಶ್ರ
dated 26.07.2022 (Annexure 1).
h. However, the government officials who ought to have discharged their
duty did not participate in said survey for reasons best known to them.

--- Page 36 ---
33
i. Left with no other option, the Petitioner proceeded with the survey
. according to the guidelines of the Scheme and the loss assessment took
place accordingly with total adherence to the framework laid down.

J. Even though the concerned officials who ought to have joined the
Petitioner in carrying out the survey did not do so, the Petitioner
complied with the mandate imposed on it by the Scheme and surveyed
the land and crops so as to process the claims of suffering and
distressed farmers.

k. It is surprising that on one hand, the government officials concerned
wilfully abstained from participating in the loss assessment surveys -
and, on the other hand, raised false and frivolous allegations against
the Petitioner for the conduct of unilateral surveys and the claim
payouts made pursuant to those surveys.

1. The concerned government officials have revealed, through their

* actions detailed earlier, that they have realised that their grievous
lapses and dereliction of duty has resulted in certain issues — not
attributable to the Petitioner for any reason — regarding assessment,
surveys, and payouts for covered crops that might have certain
farmers.

m. Instead of addressing the issues by rectifying their own shortcomings
and failings in duty, the Respondents are attempting to make the
Petitioner a scape-goat and abdicate their responsibility by
constituting committees and drawing up reports and initiating legal
action with has no basis in law. rs
ಇ

ಈ n. The FIR incorrectly records that the representatives of the Petitioner
were a part of the investigation/assessment team. The representatives

. of the Petitioner were only were present at the time of visit to
Mahadevpura village on 18.07.2023 in order to have discussions in

» respect of the grievance raised pertaining to the claim settlement
;

--- Page 37 ---
| ಬಟ ಟಿಪ  ಟ್ರಾ್‌೧ ್ಮ ;
24
during Kharif Season 2022. None of the representatives of the
Petitioner were part of the field visits carried out by the government
officials and the observations made in their reports pursuant to the .
said visits.
o. The Petitioner submits that the entire investigation carried out by the
government officials is in the nature of a colourable exercise of power
which has been carried out in an arbitrary manner
p. As no fault nor mala fides can be attributed to the Petitioner, allowing
the continuation of the constitution of the committee, and any action
founded on the consequent reports drawn up, will only erode 110 -
Petitioner's rights in law and lead to the abuse of state and judicial
machinery.
15.The Petitioner has not misused funds nor does it benefit in any 7
way from the payment of insurance claims: =
a. As per the Guidelines, the insurance premium payable in respect of the
insurance cover provided under the PMFBY Scheme is split between
the farmer, the respective state governments, and the central
government.
b, The Petitioner has received the state government's share of the subsidy
from the Government of Karnataka pursuant to which it has provided
insurance cover to the farmers in the districts where it was acting as
the Implementing Agency and covered 91 farmers (there is duplication
pertaining to two farmers out of the 93 farmers). Once the state
government remits its share of the insurance premium to the
Petitioner, the state government's role in that regardends. .
¢. Assuming, whilst denying, that the 93 farmers to whom the payments Py
were disbursed were ineligible to receive claim payments, the amounts,
if any, will be recoverable by the Petitioner from the said farmers.

--- Page 38 ---
as:
There is no question of misutilisation of funds, public or otherwise, by

. the Petitioner.

. d. The payment of the insurance claims is made entirely out of the
Petitioner's funds. At the time of payment, the Petitioner does nol
request the state government for any funds nor does it receive any funds
otherwise, As the Petitioner has not induced any person or government
10 provide it with money to then be used for payment, any allegation by
the Respondents that the Petitioner has misused funds cannot be
substantiated.

e. Even assuming, for the sake of this discussion, that a loss of Rs, 83.10
lakhs has occurred as unfairly alleged by the Respondents, such loss
will be borne only by the Petitioner and not by any of the Respondents.
Given that the Respondents do not suffer in any manner at all, it is

| completely beyond the understanding of a prudent and reasonable
person how the Respondents could be aggrieved in any way and then :
' spark off an unwarranted and illegal course of action as. they have done
so far.

16.The Scheme set up by the central government is being
rendered redundant by the Respondents due to their actions
which, in turn, impacts the ability of insurance providers to

insure farmers:

a. As set out earlier, there is a detailed grievance redressal mechanism
and appellate levels of resolution which aggrieved stakeholders can
avail of in respect of any issue concerning the Scheme, payments of
premiums and disbursal of claims. 5S

ಇ
. b. Such a mechanism is in line with the intent of the central government,

. the propounder of the scheme, to:

(i) _ provide insurance coverage and financial support to farmers in
ಎ the event of crop failures for various reasons,

--- Page 39 ---
36
(i) stabilise farmer income to ensure their continuance in farming,
(0) encourage farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural .
practices and a
(iv) ensure flow of credit to the agriculture sector.
c. These noble objectives of the central government are being stultified
by the Respondents through their unjustified and unsanctioned actions
in the absence of any statutory backing. While the primary aim of the
Scheme is to propagate and safeguard the interest of this country's
farmers and, thereby, ensure the continuance of farming in a nation
that is built on the bedrock of agriculture, the Respondents are acting
to defeat the ideas that ensure farmer welfare. ;
ಇ Such a negative effect will invariably occur due to the dissuasion of
insurance companies or insurance providers, such as the Petitioner, ಸ
from effectively participating in the process and insuring farmers and
disbursing payments when crops are lost because of the metaphorical .
‘sword of Damocles’ that is kept hanging over their heads by the
| Respondents in such a manner.
e. This ignoble cause-and-effect, wrought by the ಸಹ ಮೂ actions of
| the Respondents, only serves to harm and hinder farmer welfare and
। their financial security that is gained through insurance as the threat
of unjustified harassment and prosecution looms over the Petitioner
and other entities like it.
17.The Petitioner has no other recourse in law other than to
approach this Hon'ble Court through this petition:
a. While the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojdma scheme and its .
governing Revamped Operational Guidelines provide a complete legal
framework for remediation of disputes, the actions of the Respondents .
have rendered ineffective the provided dispute redressal mechanism

--- Page 40 ---
ಹ
and crippled any possible recourse that the Petitioner could potentially
. have sought thereunder,
. b. This apart, there exists no other legislation under which effective
redressal is provided for nor is there any other forum that the
Petitioner can approach seeking the relief which is sought from, and
can only be granted by, this Hon'ble Court.

¢. Thus, the Petitioner has presented this petition, necessitated by the
facts narrated supra and supported by the grounds urged herein,
before this Hon'ble Court.

18. Aggrieved by (i) the constitution of the committee by the Deputy
Commissioner on 27.06.2023, (ii) the Report dated 01.09.2023
submitted by the Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga with its

ಷ್ಟ findings, (iii) the letters dated 17.11.2023 and 19.12.2023 issued by the
Commissioner of Agriculture and (iv) the letter dated 20.12.2023

ಶಿ addressed by the Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga to the
Petitioner, the Petitioner is before this Hon'ble Court in the instant
petition. .

19. The Petitioner has not filed any other petition concerning the same
cause of action seeking identical relief from this Hon'ble Court.

20. The Petitioner also seeks leave of this Hon’ble Court to amend this
petition so as to bring on record additional facts and documents and
urge further grounds in support of the relief sought during the
pendency of this lis.

of

--- Page 41 ---
38
GROUNDS ON WHICH INTERIM RELIEF IS SOUGHT
21, As depicted above and as evidenced by the facts that also necessitated
the filing of the Criminal Petition before this Hon'ble Court last year, ನ
what is plain to see is that the Respondents have initiated, and are
pursuing, a course of action that unwarranted and one is that devoid
of legal basis,
3 22. The course of action that has been adopted is being used to harass the
Petitioner even though no mala fide intent nor injurious action can be
| attributed to it. In discharging its duty under the Scheme and in
compliance with the Guidelines that govern and control-all the
stakeholders — which includes the Respondents — the Petitioner
constantly strives to ensure that the aims of the Scheme are met.
23. Although it has performed its role and fulfilled the mandate given to .
it, the Respondents are unjustifiably punishing the Petitioner without
first and compulsorily seeking recourse for their alleged grievances |
under the Scheme and the Guidelines which control the operations of
all stakeholders thereunder,
24.As there exists a continuing threat to the Petitioner, it is just and
necessary that this Hon'ble Court stays the impugned actions, orders,
memoranda, and letters that have been initiated, and which are being
continued by the Respondents, pending complete and final
adjudication of this dispute.
.
ಇ ಲ
|

--- Page 42 ---
PRAYER
= WHEREFORE, it is humbly prayed that this Hon'ble Court be pleased
. to:
a. Issue a writ of Certiorari quashing the Official Memorandum No.
GraaLe Sibbandi: CR - 11/2023-24 dated 27.06.2023 issued by the
288 Respondent - Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga (Annexure — A)
b. Issue a writ of 0000೫೩7] quashing the Report No.
JaKrani/Chi/Thaam-1/Be.Vi/Tha.V a/2023-24 dated 01.09.2023
drawn up by the 3% Respondent — Joint Director Agriculture,
Chitradurga (Annexure - B);
ec. Issue a writ of Certiorari quashing both the letters No.
JaKraNi(BeVi)/34/Chitradurga-P.Mahadevapura/2023-24
: issued by the 1* Respondent — Commissioner of Agriculture,
Karnataka on 17.11.2023 (Annexure -. 0) and on 19.12.2023
(Annexure — 01);

d. Issue a writ of Certiorari quashing the letter No.
JaKraNi/Chi/Thaam1/P.Mahadevapura/Be.Vime/Ha.Ma.Paa/20
23-24 dated 20.12.2023 issued by the 4th Respondent -- Joint Director
of Agriculture, Chitradurga (Annexure ~ D);

e, Issue a writ of Prohibition permanently restraining all the
Respondents, and anyone claiming under their authority, from acting
on and pursuant to:

(0) the Official Memorandum No. GraaLe Sibbandi: CR -
= 11/2023-24 dated 27.06.2023 issued by the 24. Respondent —
Deputy Commissioner, Chitradurga (Annexure — A),
7 (i) the Report No. JaKrani/Chi/Thaam-1/Be.Vi/Tha.Va/2023-24
dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the 3" Respondent — Joint
ಕ Director Agriculture, Chitradurga (Annexure - B),

--- Page 43 ---
a)

(ii) the letters = No. —_ JaKraNi(BeVi)/34/Chitradurga—
P.Mahadevapura/2023-24 issued by the 1* Respondent - .
Commissioner of Agriculture, Karnataka on 17.11.2023 .
(Annexure - C) and on 19.12.2023 (Annexure - C1) and

(iv) letter No. JaKraNi/Chi/Thaam-
1/P.Mahadevapura/Be.Vime/Ha.Ma.Paa/2023-24 dated
20.12.2023 issued by the 371 Respondent — Joint Director of
Agriculture, Chitradurga (Annexure - D)

f, Grant such other and further reliefs as this Hon'ble Court may deem

fit to grant in the circumstances of this case and in the interest of

justice and equity.

INTERIM PRAYER ತ

Pending final adjudication and disposal of this petitioner, the 5

Petitioner seeks:
a. stay of the Official Memorandum No. GraaLe Sibbandi: CR -
11/2023-24 dated 27.06.2023 issued by the 284 Respondent - Deputy
Commissioner, Chitradurga (Annexure - A);
b. stay of the Report No, JaKrani/Chi/Thaam-LBe.Vi/Tha.Va/2023-
24 dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the 34 Respondent — Joint Director
Agriculture, Chitradurga (Annexure — B);
g. stay of the letters No. JaKraNi(BeVi)/34/Chitradurga—
P.Mahadevapura/2023-24 issued by* the 1s Respondent —
ನ :
Commissioner of Agriculture, Karnataka on 17.11.2023 (Annexure - ಸ
C) and on 19.12.2023 (Annexure - C1);
; h. stay of the letter No. JaKraNi/Chi/Thaam-
| W/P.Mahadevapura/Be. Vime/Ha.Ma.Paa/2023-24 dated

--- Page 44 ---
20.12.2023 issued by the 3 Respondent — Joint Director of

. Agriculture, Chitradurga (Annexure - D);

ಆ i. such other and further reliefs as this Hon'ble Court may deem fit to
grant in the circumstances of this case and in the interest of justice
and equity.

BENGALURU (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
tO .01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER
ADDRESS FOR SERVICE:
Preetham Jude Correa (KAR / 1295 / 2020),
° “Maruthi Krupa”, No. 4, 9 "ಗಿ' Cross,
Kumara Park West, Railway Parallel Road,
Bangalore — 560 020
72192 15197 / 99869 31671, preetham@sathyaandcorrea.com
ಹ ಕ

--- Page 45 ---
1 ಾ
7 DEEPAKB.\ & ದ
Qf kaiyendist cane ae ie
oma meister ಸ್ತ IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE, x
ಕ (ಮ ಥ್ರ
ಎ0೦ /ಫ್ರ್‌ (ORIGINAL JURISDICTION) ( GRE. \
7] ಗು) WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2024 \q \ Kalyan Dist. Thane /
: BETWEEN: ರ್ಯಾ ಡಿ
=
Universal Sompo General =
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS
AFFIDAVIT VERIFYING THE WRIT PETITION
1. Pushpashil Karve, (aged 42,jenrs.and Slo Vibhakar Karve), currently working as
© Senior manager -kegod in“the petitioner-Universal Sompo General Insurance
Company Limited, 8% Floor, Commerz, International Business Park, Oberoi Garden City,
Off Western Express Highway, Goregaon East, Mumbai — 400063 do hereby solemnly
affirm on oath and state as follows:
1. Iam the authorised representative of the Petitioner-company and thus competent to
verify this petition and sign all papers connected with it. px
2. All contentions put forth by the Petitioner at paragraphs 1 to _24 of the
memorandum of the writ petition are true and seid ey
3. All the annexures produced as Annexure A to ‘Y_ with the memorandum of the writ
petition are true copies of their originals. fge& ಶ್ರ
ಕ
ಕ್‌ Ul [ತೆ 4
Ve la Ba 21 12.2024 DEPONES?
| ROP Ser Oy we
ಇಟಿ! 4 VERIFICATION
೬೬! 1, Pushpashil Karve, the deponent herein, do verify that all that is stated above is true
Pict) and correct. SION
pea Lax
AARS f) ಬ
ಚಟಾ ತ್‌ Of}
೫1 ೪1 mMumpar A 5
ಕ NTS WM 2-1 12.2024
j i sedge Jie J DENTIFIED BY ME: ADVOCATE ಗ
ಗಸಿ ಟೆ! SSS ಹ
ರ್ಜ ಹ್‌ NOTED & REGD. | 08 ee
``. Ss 11 ADVOCATE & NOTARY
es) x No QPO4.2no WAS soa ovdriment of Indio
ರ್ಮ್‌ 1S (0 ಇ72ನ 6110... 24..4024 Kalyan, Dist. Thane, Maharashra
H Eke dd) Reg.No.15166
eee By 21 DEC

--- Page 46 ---
hag comes — A ದಾರಾ
ಸ ; tomes ont
| ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ
ಸಸ ವೃತ್ತ ದೂರವಾಣಿ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆಃ222811, 222538
ಸ್ಯ ಸ ಜಿತಃ ಹಃ ಫ್ಯಾಕ್ಟ್‌ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ 08194-224255
ete ee ಬ ತುಜಾ»
= ನರಿಗ್ರಾಲೆಸಬ್ಬಂದಿ:ಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2073-24 ಡಿನಾಂಕ:27-6-2023
“ ಅಧಿಕೃತ ಜ್ಞಾಪನಾ: /
. : ವಿಷಯ:- ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ ಪ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸರ್ಕಾರದಿಂದ ರೈತರಿಗೆ
೩ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿರುವ ಚೆಳೆ.. ಪರಿಸಾರದ. ಹಣ ಮತ್ತು Be
ವಿಮೆ. ಪರಿಹಾರದ. ಹಣವನ್ನು. ದುರುಪಯೋಗ
5 ಪಡಿಸಿಕೊಂಡಿರುವ. ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಸಮಗ್ರವಾಗಿ ತನಿಖೆ. ನಡೆಸಿ.
ವರದಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸುವ ಕುರಿತು.
eae ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ: ದಿನಾಂಕ:23,06.2023 ರಂದು ನಡೆದ. ಕೆಡಿ.ಪಿ.ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
eS
BO” ಚರ್ಚಸಲಾದಂತೆ. ಮ
i/o ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲು ಉಸ್ತುವಾರಿ ಸಚಿವರು ಹಾಗೂ ಯೋಜನೆ ಮತ್ತು ಸಾಂಖ್ಯಿಕ ಸಚಿವರು ರವರ
(ಬಾ ಕತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ದಿನಾಂಕ;23.06,2023 ರಂದು ನಡೆದ ಕೆ.ಡ.ಪಿ.ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ
wars ್‌್‌ರ್ಕಾರದಿಂದ ಶೈತರಿಗೆ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿರುವ BY ಪರಿಹಾರಡ ನಿಧಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಮತ್ತು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದಲ್ಲಿ
ನಡೆದಿರುವ ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರದ How ವಿವರವಾದ ತನಿಖೆ ನಡೆಸಿ ಕ್ರಮವಹಿಸುವಂತೆ ಸೂಚಿಸಲಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
ಆದ್ದರಿಂದ. 2022-23 ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸರ್ಕಾರದಿಂದ ರೈತ೦ಗೆ.
ನೀಡಲಾಗಿರುವ ಬೆಳ್ಳೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ನಿಧಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಮತ್ತು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದಿದೆ. ಎನ್ನಲಾದ
ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರದ ಕುರಿತು ಸಮಗ್ರವಾಗಿ ತನಿಖೆಯನ್ನು ' ಕೈಗೊಂಡು ತನಿಖೆ ವೇಳೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ಹಣ
ದುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುವುದು ಕ೦ಡುಬಂದಲ್ಲಿ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿ/ನೌಕರರ ಮೇಲೆ ಕಾನೂನು ಕ್ರಮ
= ಕೈಗೊಂಡು ಪೂರಕ ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ 15 ದಿವಸದೊಳಗಾಗಿ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸುವಂತೆ. ಈ
ಕೆಳಕಂಡ ಜಂಟಿ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ತಂಡವನ್ನು ರಚಿಸಿ ಆದೇಶಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ.
ತು ಕೌ [Fda sous wowsad sx 5
ತ sm ಫ್ಯಾನ್‌ ಜಾಪ್‌
WA BF DOU EONS, sosacer seh, | Ste] eT
eel
t YOO ತಾಸ sve abd & tod ತಂತಗಳ DR BobcOxen anus.
(ಬೆಳೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ)
L ಬೆಳೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ಲಾಗಿನ್‌ ನಲ್ಲಿ ನಮೂದಿಸಿರುವ ಆರ್‌.ಟಿ.ಸಿ.ಗೂ ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿತರಣೆಯಾಗಿರುವ
ರ್ಥ” _ ಆರ್‌.ಟಿ.ಸಿಗೂ ತಾಳೆ ಇದೆಯೇ ಎಂಬ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
sv 2, ಆರ್‌.ಟಿ.ಸಿಯಲ್ಲಿನ ವಿಸ್ತೀರ್ಣಕ್ಕೂ ಲಾಗಿನ್‌ ನಲ್ಲಿ ನಮೂದಿಸಿರುವ ವಿಸ್ತೀರ್ಣಕ್ಕೂ ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸವಿರುವ
ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
3. ಆರ್‌.ಟಿಸಿ ಕಾಲಂ 13 ರಲ್ಲಿದ್ದಂತೆ ಬೆಳೆಯನ್ನು ನಮೂದಿಸಿ. ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿತರಣೆಯಾಗಿದೆಯೇ
22 ಅಥವಾ ಬೆಳ್ಳೆ ಇಲ್ಲದೆಯೇ ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿಶರಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆಯೇ ಎಂಟ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
ಹ ಪ್ಯೂ HOO 9 ರಲ್ಲಿನ ಹೆಸರಿಗೆ ನಮೂದಿಸಿ, ಪರಿಹಾರ. ವಿತರಣೆ ಮಾಡುವಾಗ
ಆ ಬೇರೆಯವರ ಹೆಸರನ್ನು ನಮೂದಿಸಿ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
5. ನಕಲಿ ಬ್ಯಾಂಕ್‌ ಖಾತೆಗಳನ್ನು ಸೃಷ್ಟಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಪರಿಹಾ ರದ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಅಧಿಕಾರಿನೌಕರರ/
ಆರ್‌.ಟಿ.ಸಿ.ದಾರರಲ್ಲದವರ ಖಾತೆಗಳಿಗೆ ಜಮಾ ಮಾಡಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
ಕ 6. ತೋಟಗಾರಿಕಾ ಬೆಳೆಯನ್ನು ನಮೂದಿಸಿ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಾವಶಿಸಲಾಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
7. 88 ಪರಿಹಾರದ. ಲಾಗಿನ್‌ನಲ್ಲಿ ಭೂಮಿಯ ತರಣೆಯನ್ನು ಆರ್‌.ಟಿ.ಸಿ.ಯಲ್ಲಿರುವಂತೆಯೇ |
ಬಾಗಯ್ತು. ಖುಷ್ಕಿ, ತರಿ ಎಂದು ನಮೂರಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆಯೇ ಅಥವಾ ಭೂಮಿ ' ತರಣೆಯನ್ನು
ಬದಲಾಯಿಸಿ, ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಾವತಿಸಲಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆಯೇ ಎಂಬ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
8. ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಆದೇಶ/ಸುತ್ತೋಲೆ ಮತ್ತು ಮಾರ್ಗ ಸೂಚಿಗಳನ್ನಯ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಾವತಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆಯೇ
ಎಂಬ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
9, ಇತರೆ ವಿಷಯಗಳ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸುವುದು.
CE scanned with OKEN Seger

--- Page 47 ---
{PFU ಸರ್ಜಾರ Site ಇತ್ತಾ ein pio : ;
ff _ನೊರನಾಗ:08194-21240 45 oa firm ಈ
ಸೆ SSR ass Email: ಷಾ ಇಂದಾ ವವರ
PRR DRS Ma ——————-— Sot 01-09-2023
ಇವ೦ಗ್ಗೆ
: ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ,
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ,
- ಮಾನ್ಯರ,
ನಿಷಯ ; 2822-23 ಟೇ ಸಾಲಿನ ಟೆಳೆ ಏಮೆ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿ ಹಿಮುಹದೇವಹುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿ ವ್ಯಾಕ್ತಿಯ ಗ್ರಾಮಗಳಲ್ಲಿ
= ಎಮ್ಯುವಯಾಗಿರುವುದರಲ್ಲಿ ವೃತ್ಯಾಸಬಾಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ತನಿಖಾ dd BO..
ಹೆ JORMTIONG WMO [ನಂ॥23-06-7013ರಂದು ನಂಜ 2.8 ಸಭೇಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರಸದಂತೆ
ನಾ ುರ್ಗ 2, [ಮ್ಮ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರ ೫೦/ಗ್ರಾಲಲ್ಬಂದಿ' ಒಆರ್‌-1/2623-24, 0:27-06~-2023
= 3. Prres:tt-07-2023 ರಂದು ಮಾಸ್ಯ ಅಪರ ಪಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
. . ರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ,
15 227223 4. ಕಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಳ್ಕಕರೆ ಇವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಯನ/14/ಪಿಮ/ಪ್ರಥ.ಬಿ.ಯೋ/2022-23,
08,082023,
ಗ ae ae ಕಛೇರಿ. aa aa iis 0:11.08,2023,
ಹ SEROUS ಹಾಗೂ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, 2022-23ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ
ಪರಡುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿಯ ಪಿ.ಮಹೆದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
ಅವ್ಯಮಾಾರಗಳು ನಡೆದಿವೆ ಎಂದು ರೈತರು ದೂರಿರುವುದರಿಂದ ದಿನಾಂಕ 18-07-2023 ರಂದು ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಆದೇಶದಂತೆ
ತಾಖಾ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ತಂಡ ಸದರಿ ಗ್ರಾಮಕ್ಕೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿ, ರೃತರು. ತಮ್ಮ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ದುರುಪಯೋಗದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ
ಹಮಾಖಗಳನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿ ಸಮಗ್ರ ತನಿಖೆಗೆ ಆಗ್ರಹಿಸಿದರು, ಆದ ಕಾರಣ ದಿನಾಂಕ 25-07-2023 ರಂದು ಈ ಕೆಳಕಂಡ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು
ಕೂಲಂಕುಷವಾಗಿ ತನಿಖೆ ನಡೆಸಿ AIO ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲು ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌ರವರು ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರು ಈ ಕೆಳಕಂಡ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ತಂಡವನ್ನು ರಚಿಸಿ
ಅದೇಶ ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.
ಸಾ”
is ಹೆಸರು. ೩
ಹ ಇಸರಾ್ಮ್ಯಾಷಾಶ aww 77೯೫೯೫
jsosaen (Saxo ) BUeoozd
ಸ f FESO ಸಷಶಾಸಷಾರಾರ್ಹಾ PRT)
ee MT) ೧.
ತಪಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌ರವರ ಆದೇಶದಂತೆ ತನಿಖಾ ತಂಡದ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ದಿನಾಂಕ 25-07-2023 ರಂದು ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಶುರ
ಗ್ರಾಮಕ್ಕೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಿ ಪ್ರೌಢಶಾಲೆಯ ಆವರಣ ಸಭಾಂಗಣದಲ್ಲಿ ಮಹದೇವಮರ, ಕಡೇಹುಡೆ ಹಾಗೂ ಇತರೆ. ಗ್ರಾಮಗಳ dad
ಸಮ್ಮುಬಿದಲ್ಲಿ 114881 ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿಯಲ್ಲಿ 2022-23 ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯ ರೈತರುಗಳಿಗೆ
ತೆ ಪಾವತಿಯಾಗಿರುವ ಏವರಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆ ಮಾಡಲಾಯಿತು.
ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು -ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಸುರ MAD ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸ್ಥಳ ನಿರ್ಧಿಷ್ಟ ವಿಕೋಪ ಹಾಗೂ ಚೆಳೆ ಕಟಾವು ನಂತರ:
” ಪ್ರಕೃತಿ ವಿಕೋಪಗಳಿಂದಾಗುವ ನಪ್ಯದ ಪರಿಹಾರವನ್ನು ನೀಡಿರುವ dad ಪಟ್ಟಿಯನ್ನು ಸದರಿ ಸಭೆಗೆ ಹಾಜರು ಪಡಿಸಿದರು, ಒಟ್ಟು
ತ ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ 1047 ರೈತರು ವಿಮಗೆ ನೊಂದಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. 20. ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ಬೆಳೆ ಕಟಾವು ಆಧಾರಿತ ವಿಮ.
ಪರಿಷಾರ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿದ್ದು, 161 ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಸ್ಥಳ ನಿರ್ದಿಷ್ಠ ಪ್ರಕೃತಿ ವಿಕೋಪ ಮತ್ತು ಕಟಾವು ನಂತರ de ಹಾನಿ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ
. ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮ ಪರಿಹಾರ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿದ್ದು, ಈ। ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳನ್ನು ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾಗಿ ರೈತರ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಶೇಂಗಾ deri
ಪರಿಹಾರ ನೀಡಿರುವುದಾಗಿ ಯೂನಿವರ್ಸಲ್‌ ಸೋಂಪೊ ಕಂಪನಿ ಲಿಮಿಟೆಡ್‌ ಇವರು ಮಾಹಿತಿ ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ, ಆದರೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ನೀಡಲಾಗಿರುವ ರೈತರ ಜಮೀನಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಮುಂಗಾರು ಹಂಗಾಮಿನ ಬೆಳೆಗಳ ವಿವರಗಳನ್ನು ಬೆಳೆದರ್ಶಕ್‌ ತಂತ್ರಾಂಶದಲ್ಲಿ (ಬೆಳೆ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷಿ
¢ ಪ್ರರ) ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆ ಮಾಡಿದಾಗ ಹಾಗೂ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸೇರಿದ್ದ ರೈತರ ಷೇಳಿಕಿಯ ಪ್ರಕಾರ ಸಾಕಷ್ಟು ಜಮೀನುಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಶೇಂಗಾ ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲರೆ
Bie ಬೆಳೆಗಳಿರುವುದು ಹಾಗೂ ಪಾಳು ಧೂಮಿಯಿರುವುದು ಕಂಡು ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಆದ ಕಾರಣ ಕೃಷಿ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿ ವರಶುರಾಂಪರ, |
ಗ್ರಾಮ ಆಡಳಿತಾಧಿಕಾರಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ, ಪೋಲಿಸ್‌ ಸಬ್‌ಇಷ್ಸಪೆಕ್ಟರ್‌ ಪರಶುರಾಂಪರ, ಗ್ರಾಮ ಸಹಾಯಕರು ಪಿ.ಮಹದ್ದೇವಷುರ
ಹಾಗೂ ಪಿ.ಮಹಣೇವಮರ ಗ್ರಾಮದ ಗ್ರಾಮಸ್ಥರ ಜೊತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಜಮೀನುಗಳಿಗೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆ ಮಾಡಿದಾಗ ಈ ಕೆಳಕಂಡಂತೆ.
ಪ್ರರಾನ ಮಂತ್ರಿ ಫಸರ್‌ ಭೀಮಾ ಯೋಜನೆಯ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಗಳನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆ ಮಾಡಿ ವಿಮಾ come pass ಆಂಶಗಳು
ಕಂಡಾ ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಎಂದು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ(3)ರಂತೆ ತಂಡವು ಪರಿಶೀಲನಾ ವರರಿಯನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಪಿಸಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
CE scanned with OKEN ಅಂಚ

--- Page 48 ---
4 ಗೆ
Eine ಹ್‌ ere S/ ಚ! -
ನ ಆರ್‌.ಎಂ. ರಕ್ತ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-5771 res < ನ್ಯ
(ರಟ tard Email: Hdagrictagyahoo,ea 9 é
ರಾಣಾಾಗ0॥19/-221396 $$$ i e .
"~~ SORERERO wee wed wou: ——SOCSCS~* xe
ಲಿ ಕಂಡು ಬಂದ ಅಂಶಗಳು: ಹ
1) ಶೇನಗಾ ಬೆಳೆಯ ಬದಬಾಗಿ ತೆಂಗು, ಅಡಿಕೆ, ಭೊಮ ಇತರೆ. ene ಸ ಸೆ ಹ
2) ಯಾವುದೇ ಬೆಳೆಯಿಲ್ಲದೆ ಪಾಳುಖೀಳು ಐದೀನಿಗೆ pacomplenaii ಸ್‌ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು edocs ಸ a .
3) ಖಾತೆವಾರತ ಬಜಲಾಗಿ ಬೇರೆಯವರು ಬೆಳವಿಮೆ ನೋಂದಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ, ಹಗೂ | ತಂತು ಬರಯ:
3) ಕಲವು ಪಲಾಸುರವಿಗಳಿೆ ಒಂದಕ್ಕಿಂತ ಹೆಚ್ಚು ಬಾರಿ ವಿಮಾ ಷ0ಪಾರ ತವರು orbs ಸಗಳ ವೈಯಕ್ತಿಕವಾಗಿ cine y
SY ROPE Otecstnee ಹಾಗೂ BY ಕಪು Hos ಪ್ರಕ eri ERA ಕಾರಿತು ಘಟಿ ಪಜ ಧೌ
FOS ರೈತರ ಜಮೀನುಗಳಿಗೆ ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯ ಪ್ರತಿನಿಧಿಗಳು ಹಾಗೂ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದ ಇಲಾಖೆಯ. a
BE ನಿರ್ವವಣಿ ಮಾಡಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳನ್ನು ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು ಸದರಿ ದಿನದಂದು sme ಪಡಿಸಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ.
ಮುಂ 04. suman ನೀಡುವಂತೆ. ಉಲ್ಲಂ () ಲ್ಲ, 30ಸಿ ಎಮ್ಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು. Dros
ಸಮಜಾಯಿಸಿಗಳಲ್ಲಿ tien ೆಚ್ಚುವಾರಿ. adm ಪರಿಹಾರ” ಪಾವತಿಯಾಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಉತ್ತರಿಸುತ್ತಾ, ಕೆಲವು. ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ
ನಲಾಸುಭವಿಗಳು ಒಂದಕ್ಕಿಯ ಹುಚ್ಚು ಸರ್ವೇ ನಂಬರ್‌ ಆಥವಾ ಹಿಸ್ಸಾ ನಂಬರ್‌ಗಳಿಗೆ ವಿಮಾ ಪಾವತಿ ಮಾಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಅಂತಹ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ
SSNS ವಿಮ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಜಮೇಯಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ, ಮತ್ತು ಕಲವು ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಹಣ ಜಮ ಆಗಿಲ್ಲದೇ ಇರುವುದರಿಂದ (Fail Payment)
ಮತೊತ ಹಣ ಜ ಸೆಮಜಾಯಿ $3 ಗಿ. ಯಾವುದೇ ನ್ಯೂನ್ಯತೆಗಳು & ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆ.
ಮತ್ತೊಮ್ಮೆ ಹಣ ಜಮೆ ಆಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಎಂದು ಸಮಜಾಯಿಸಿ ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಇದನ್ನು ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾ।
SORSEOSS ಸದರಿ, ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳನ್ನು ಕೃದಿರಬಹುದಾಗಿದ್ದು, ಉಳಿದಂತೆ. ಏರು. ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಡದಿಯಿದ ಬ್ಬ 01 ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ 93
ಪೇರಣಗಳ್ಲಿ Game ಸಂಸ್ಕ್ರಯಂದ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಗಳ ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನಿಯಾಗಿರುವುದು ಕಂಡುಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
ಸ್ಥಳ POPE ವಿಕೋಪ ಹಾಗೂ ಬಿಳಿ ಕಾವು ನಂತರ ಪ್ರಕೃತಿ ವಿತೋಪಗಳಿಂದಾಗುವ ನಷ್ಟ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆ Schroer
ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ, ಸರ್ಕರಿ, ಅದೇಶ ಸಂ: ೃಂ-ಕ್ಕಿಉ/56/2022(1), ದಿ: 07.05.2022 ರ ಅಧಿಸೂಚನಯಲ್ಲಿರುವಂತೆ
ತೋಟಗಾರ, ಕಂಡಾಯ ಇಲಾಖೆಯ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ. ಜೊತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಷ್ಟ wooed adds ಏಕಪಕ್ಷೀಯವಾಗಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆ
ನಡೆಸ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯ ಉಲ್ಲಂಗಭ ಮಾಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.
ಮಿಗೆ ಸಾಗ ಸಂದಾಯ wedge! ಬೇತೆ: ಬದು. ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಸರ ಪಡೆದ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಒಟ್ಟು ರೂ.
6734804)- ಹೆಣ ರುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ,
3; ವಾತೆದಾರರ ಬದಲಿಗೆ ಬೇರೂಬ್ಬರು ನೊಂದಣಿ: ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುವ. ಮತ್ತು ಬೀಳು ಭೂಮಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ ನೊಂದಾಯಿತ ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೇ
ಬೇರೆ Be ಬೆಳೆದು. BSR ಪರಿಜಾರ ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲ. ಒಟ್ಟು ರೂ. 1384598/- ಹಣ. ದುರುಪಯೋಗ ಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ.. >
+. ಖಾತೆದಾರರ ಬದಲಿಗೆ. ಬೇರೊಬ್ಬರು. ನೊಂದಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿ ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ: ಪಡೆದಿರುವ. ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ. ರೂ, 190600/- ಹಣ
ಮರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಆದರಂತೆ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿ ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆಯಾದ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು ಈ 8ಳಕಂಡಲಿತಿವೆ.
ತಾಕಾ '
ನೊಂದಾಯಿತ. ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೆೇ: ded 107337, 1407433, 1939594, 2025673, 2331659, 233146,
ಬೆಳೆ ಬೆಳೆದು. ವಿಮಾ. ಪರಿಹಾರ: (2331979, 233045, 2077943, 1965037, 1081073, 1578053,
ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು. 1968237, 2413944, 108373. 1577063, 830832, 2387891,
1973854, 2388119, 2041195, 1967912, 138361, 39115,
[191564, 2079336, 2253466, 2284987, 2254214, 642993,
1969510, 1975581, 1915581, 1975581, 1975581, 299432, 6734804
2199055, 604636. 1556800, 2077366, 1407698 1602526,
03177, 1731234, 164575, 1909456, 1964553, 1493019,
150156, 1786084, 1556575, 1974885, 2335452, 144913,
[2252725, 215415, 211545, 2115415, 2115415, 1156763,
ಕ 156395, 1377943, 808767, 1081816, 1082108, 238851,
160753, 160753, 2292399, 1545776, 2126434, 2126634, 2
[2103981, 2101254
ನೊಂದಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುವ. ಮತ್ತು
> ಭೂಮಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ 412676, 2389199, 1977850, 1977850, 670580, 2410265, 1384598
ಗೊಂದಾಯಿತ ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೇ ಬೀರೆ. 27. 2392772, 2390189, 1852909, 2377473
ಳೆ ಬೆಳೆದು. ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ
anes ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು. "4
3 rine Deer aaa
ಗೊಂದಿ "ಮಾಡಿಸಿ. ವಿಮಾ 2 398424, 2392564
rome ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು
ಯ] [ತ್‌] a =
“punters ಸೋಂಡೋ cade ಇನ್ಸೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ to. ಪ್ರತಿನಿಧಿಗಳಿಂದ ae. _93,10.002/- ee
ದುಡುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುವುದೆಂದು ಆರರ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯನ್ನು Longe ವಿವರಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. ಹಾಗೂ ಈ ಪತ್ರದೊಂದಿಗೆ ಲಗತ್ತಿಸಿ ತಮ್ಮ ಜದ್ಯ
ಗಮುನಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಮುಂದಿಗ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿ
ತಮ್ಮ ಗ್ಳಂಬುಗೆಯ, ತಮ್ಮ ನಂಬುಗೆಯ, ತಮ್ಮ ನಂಬುಗೆಯ, ನಂಬುಗೆಯ,
ies ಬಟ ಬ್‌ ವ
ಜ್‌ Suess ANTE, ಉಪ ನಿರ್ದೇಶ” ಹ ಮಧಾಣುಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ್ಳು.
el 6 2 ಮಿ ಕ
ene ctr, ತೋಟಗಾರಿಕೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಕೇಷ್ಮೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಉಪ ವಿಭಾಗ ;
sae ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ. ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ. ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ, |
(೪: 5೦೫೧೧೮ with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 49 ---
ಇಸಾ fh
/ At
ra Pees pa frm b.
: ಳರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರ 7
« (ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ)
ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ನಂ.01, ಶೇಷಾದ್ರಿ ರಸ್ತೆ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು-01.
ಜ್ಞ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ: ಜಕ್ಕನಿ(ಬವಿ)/34/ಚಿ ತ್ರದುರ್ಗ -ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ/2023-24.. ದಿನಾಂಕ:17.11.2023
ರವರಿಗೆ,
ಜ೦ಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು,
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ,
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ.
ವಿಷಯ: 20220 ಮುಂಗಾರು ಬೆಳ ವಿಮ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ
ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯವಾಗಿರುವ ದೂರಿನ ಕುರಿತು.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ: 1) ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ರೈತರ ನಿಯೋಗದ.
ಖುದ್ದು ಮನವಿ ಪತ್ರ ದಿನಾ೦ಕ'29,08.7023.
ಜು ಏ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಖೆೆಗ್ರಾ.ಲೆ:ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ:
ಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2023-24, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:15.09,2023.
ಜೆ 3) ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರದ ಸಮ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ ದಿನಾ೦ಕ107.11.2023.
4) USGIC ಕಂಪನಿಯವರ ಪತ್ರ Hoss, USGI/PMFBY/2023-24/185,
` ತೌ ದಿನಾಂಕ:11.11.2023.
20s ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲೂಕು, ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ.
F ಸಂಚಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ರೈತರ ನಿಯೋಗ ಖುದ್ದು ಈ ಕಛೇರಿಗೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಿ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಿತ (1)ರ
ಮನವಿ ಪತ್ರವನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಸದರಿ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಯೂನಿವರ್ಸಲ್‌ ಸೋ೦ಪೋ ಜನರಲ್‌
ಇನ್ಸೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿಯವರು (156/0 2022ರ ಮುಂಗಾರು ಹಂಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ ತಮ್ಮ ಗ್ರಾಮ.
ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಶೇಂಗಾ ಬೆಳೆಗೆ ಸ್ಮಳ ನಿರ್ದಿಷ್ಠ ವಿಕೋಪ ಹಾಗೂ ಬೆಳೆ ಕಟಾವು
ನಂತರ ಪ್ರಕೃತಿ ವಿಕೋಪಗಳಿಂದಾಗುವ ಬೆಳೆ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಮೊತ್ತ ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ _
ನ್ಯೂನ್ಯತೆಗಳಿರುವುದಾಗಿ ತಿಳಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಮುಖ್ಯವಾಗಿ ಶೇಂಗಾ ಬೆಳೆಯ ಬದಲಾಗಿ ಬೇರೆ ಬೆಳ
ಭ್ರ ಬೆಳೆದಿರುವ, ಪಾಳು ಅಥವಾ ಬೀಳು ಜಮೀನುಗಳಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ ಜಮೀನು ಖಾತೆದಾರರ ಬದಲಾಗಿ.
ಬೇರೆಯವರಿಗೆ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿತರಿಸಿರುವುದಾಗಿ ದೂರಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.
me ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ 0) ರ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, USGIC ವಿಮಾ
_ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು ಪ್ರಧಾನ ಮಂತ್ರಿ ಫಸಲ್‌ ಬಿಮಾ ಯೋಜನೆಯ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು
ಅನುಸರಿಸದೇ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಮೊತ್ತ ಇತ್ಯರ್ಥಪಡಿಸುವಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದು
ಸ್ಪಷ್ಟವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ ಎಂದು. ವರದಿ ಮಾಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.
ಈ scanned with OKEN oe

--- Page 50 ---
i
48 ,
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ (3) ರ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ USGIC ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಮೆಯವರಿಗೆ ಸದರಿ ವಿಷಯದ ಕುರಿತು
ಸೂಕ್‌ತ ಸಮಜಾಯಿಷಿ ನೀಡಲು ತಿಳಿಸಲಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. |
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ () ರ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ USGIC ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಕೆಯವರು ಯಾವ ವಿಧಾನದಲ್ಲಿ ‘
ರೈತರಿಂದ ಬಳ ನಷ್ಟದ ಕುರಿತು ಮಾಹಿತಿ ಪಡದಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ವಿವರಣಿ ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಆದರೆ,
ಇದಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, call log ೮6015 ಹಾಗೂ web link ನಲ್ಲಿನ Raw data
ಮಾಹಿತಿಯನ್ನು ನೀಡಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ ware aan ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದ ಸೂಕ್ತ ದಾಖಲೆಗಳನ್ನು
os ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ.
ಸದರಿ ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಕೆಯವರು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳನ್ನು ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾ?ಿದ್ದು,
PMFBY ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆ ಮಾಡಿ, ಜಂಟಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಯನ್ನು ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳದೆ,
© ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು ಏಕಪಕ್ಷೀಯ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆ ಕೈಗೊಂಡು ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಮೊತ್ತ ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
ನ್ಯೂನ್ಯತ ಕಂಡುಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಿತ (2) ರ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ನೀಡಿರುವ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಒಪ್ಪಲಾಗಿದೆ =*
ಹಾಗೂ ಸದರಿ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಆಧರಿಸಿ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ತಿಳಿಸಿರುವಂತೆ ಒಟ್ಟು 93 ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ
ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ ರೂ.8310 ಲಕ್ಷ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಈ ಕೂಡಲೇ ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರಿಂದ
ವಸೂಲಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿ ಸರ್ಕಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಮರುಪಾವತಿಸುವಂತೆ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕೆಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ ಹಾಗೂ :
PMFBY ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಘಿಸಿದ USGIC ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರ ವಿರುದ್ಧ ಸೂಕ್ತ
ಕಾನೂನು ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕೆಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ. :
; ಹಚ
ಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರು
ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರಿಗೆ ಕಳುಹಿಸುತ್ತಾ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ಈಗಾಗಲೇ ಜಂಟಿ.
ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ ರವರಿಗೆ ಸಂಸ್ಕೆಯ ವಿರುದ್ಧ wen ಕ್ರಮ.
ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ನಿರ್ದೇಶನ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿದ್ದು ಈ ಕುರಿತು ಸೂಕ್ತ ಹಿಂಬಾಲಿಕೆ ಕ್ರಮ ವಹಿಸಲು
ತಿಳಿಸಿದೆ.
Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 51 ---
ಕ 44 finn-C4
ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರ
ಜ್ಯ (ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ)
_ HA ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ನ೦.01, ಶೇಷಾದ್ರಿ ರಸ್ತೆ, ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು-01
. ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ-ಜ.ಕೃ.ನೀ(ಬೆ.ವಿ)/ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ/ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ/34/2023-24 ದಿನಾ೦ಕ: 19122023
aa ರವರಿಗೆ,
2063 ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು,
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ,
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ.
ಮಾನ್ಯರೇ,
ವಿಷಯ: 2022-23 ರ ಮು೦ಗಾರು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ
ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪ೦ಚಾಯಿತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳ ವಿಮೆ.ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ಇ ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯವಾಗಿರುವ ಕುರಿತು.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ:1) ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ರೈತರ
ನಿಯೋಗದ ಖುದ್ದು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ ಮನವಿ ಪತ್ರ ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:29.08.2023.
ಷಃ 2) ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ ಪತ್ರ
ಸಂ೦ಖ್ಯೆ:ಗ್ರಾಲೆ:ಸಿಬ್ಬ೦ದಿ:ಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2023-24, ದಿಸಾ೦ಕ:15.09.2023. i
3) ಈ ಕಛೆರಿಯ ಪತ್ರದ ಸಮ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:17.11.2023.

_4) ಜ೦ಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ ರವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ:
ಜಕೃನಿ/ಚಿ/ತಾ೦-1/ಪಿ.ಮಹಾದೇವಪುರ/ಬೆ.ವಿಮೆ/ಮರು.ಪಾ/2023-24,
ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:11.12.2023.

ence
ಮೇಲಿನ ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸ೦ಬ೦ಧಿಸಿದ೦ತೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು,
ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ 2022ರ ಮು೦ಗಾರು ಹ೦ಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯ್ಮವಾಗಿದ್ದು, ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ) ರಲ್ಲಿ ಒಟ್ಟು 93 ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ
ವೃತ ಸ೦ಬ೦ಧಿಸಿದ೦ತೆ, ರೂ.83.10 ಲಕ್ಷ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ವಿಮಾ ಸ೦ಸ್ಥೆಯಿ೦ದ ವಸೂಲಿ ಮಾಡಿ
ಸದರಿ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಜಮಾ ಮಾಡಿಸಬೇಕಾದ ಖಾತೆಯ ವಿವರವನ್ನು ಕೋ(ರಿರುತ್ತೀರಿ.
= ಇದಕ್ಕೆ ಸ೦ಬಂಧಿಸಿದ೦ತೆ, ಸದರಿ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ Fund routing
ಸ೦ಸ್ಥೆಯಾದ ಅಗ್ರಿಕಲ್ಬರ್‌ ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕ೦ಪನಿ, ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು ರವರ ಈ ಕಳಗಿನ ಖಾತೆ
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆಗೆ ಜಮೆ ಮಾಡಲು ಈ ಮೂಲಕ ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ. ಸ೦ತರ, ಮುಂದಿನ
ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಗೊಳ್ಳಲಾಗುವುದು.
. a

--- Page 52 ---
Beneficiary name: Agriculture Insurance Company of India Itd (Crop Insurance
Operation)
Account ೧೦.೦09010200008495
Bank name: Axis bank Itd “
ಷಃ Branch: M.G.ROAD
IFSC code: UTIBO0G0009 ri
~ & Lee.
oe ಆಯುಕ್ತರು
ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು: 4

1) ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ರವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕಳುಹಿಸಿದೆ.

2) ಅಗ್ರಿಕಲ್ಮರ್‌ ಇನ್ಸೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕ೦ಪನಿ, ನಂ.18, 3ನೇ ಮಹಡಿ, ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಪ್ರದೇಶ ಕೃಷಿಕ
ಸಮಾಜ ಬಿಲ್ಜಿಂಗ್‌, ಹಡ್ಸನ್‌ ವೃತ್ತ, ನೃಪತು೦ಗ ರಸ್ತೆ, ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು-560001 ರವರಿಗೆ
ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಕಳುಹಿಸುತ್ತಾ, ಈ ಕಛೇರಿಯ ಮುಂದಿನ ಆದೇಶದವರೆಗೆ ಸದರಿ
ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ತಮ್ಮ ಖಾತೆಯಲ್ಲಿಯೇ ಹಿಡಿದಿಟ್ಟುಕೊಳ್ಳುವುದು.

--- Page 53 ---
ಕ
apa ಲ “1
Rad ಇ ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರ ಕಛೇರಿ war P-
ay ಆರ್‌.ಎಂ. ರಸ್ತ. ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-577501 ’ ಕ್ರ ೫8
ಕರ್ನಾಟಕೆ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ೫1 ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ
ದೂರವಾಣಿ:0819//-222406: Email: jdagricta@yahoo.co.in
. SO teed aes HA ಮಹದೇವಸುರ/ಬವಿನು/ಹನುಪಾ/2923 24... Oe O20,
. awit,
+, hodlaivre ಸೊ!೦ಪೂ( ಜನರಲ್‌ ಇನ್ನೂಗೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂ,
ನಂ: 7, BD HORS, 2ನೇ ಮಹಡಿ,
9 ಮುಖ್ಯರಸ್ತೆ, 5ನೇ ಬ್ಲಾಕ್‌,
. ಇಯನಗರ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು-560041
ಹ ವಿಷಯ.- ನಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ 2022 ರ ಮು೦ಗಾರು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ಖಿತರಣಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಮವಾಗಿರುವ ಹಣ ಮರು ಪಾಪತಿ ಕುರಿತು.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ: 1. ಮಾಸ್ಕ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: ಗ್ರಾ.ಲೆಸಿಬ್ಬ೦ದಿ:ಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2023-24,
ದಿ: 15.09.2023,
2 ಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಪತ್ರ No: ಜಕ್ಕನೀ(ಬೆವಿ)14/ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-ಪಿ.ಮಗ್‌ದೇವಪುರ/2023-24,
ದಿ: 17.11.2023
3. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: ಜಕ್ಕನೀ(ಜೆ.ವಿ)14/ಚಿ.ತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-ಪಿ.ಮಕದೇವಪುರ/2023-34. ದಿ. 19.12.2023
ame
AOS ವಿಷಯಕ, ಸಂಬಂದಿಸಿದಂತೆ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ. ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು. ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ.
ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ Sal, dowd ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸ೦ಬ೦ಧಿಸಿದ೦ತೆ, ತಾವು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವ ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳನ್ನು
2 ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು PMFBY ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆ ಮಾಡಿ ಜಂಟಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಯನ್ನು ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳದೆ. ಏಕ
% ಪಕ್ಚೀಯವಾಗಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆ ಕೃಗೊ೦ಡು ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಮೊತ್ತ. ವಿಚರಣಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸ್ಕೂಸತೆ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದು ಕ೦ಡು ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
= ಎ೦ದು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-2 ರಲ್ಲಿ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-1ರ ತನಿಖಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಒಪ್ಪಿ ಅದರಲ್ಲಿ ತಿಳಿಸಿರುವ ಒಟ್ಟ 93
4 ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ ರೂ. 8೩0 oF ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ವಿಮಾ ಸ೦ಸ್ಕೆಯವರಿಂದ ವಸೂಲಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿ ಸರ್ಕಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಮರು.
ಪಾವತಿಸುವಂತೆ ಕ್ರಮ ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಸದರಿ ವಿಷಯದನ್ನಯವಾಗಿ ರೂ. 83.10 ಲಕ್ಷಗಳ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಬಳೆ.
ವಿಮೆ Fund routing ಸ೦ಸ್ಮೆಯಾದ ಅಗ್ರಿಲ್ಬರ್‌ ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ soe), ಬೆ೦ಗಳೂರು ರವರ ಈ ಕಳಗಿನ ಖಾತಿ ಸ೦ಖೈಗೆ ಜಮಾ
ಮಾಡಲು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-3 ರ೦ತ ಸೂಚಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಆದ್ದರಿ೦ದ ಸದರಿ ರೂ 83.10 ಲಕ್ಷ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ಈ ಕೂಡಲೇ ಕಳಕ೦ಡ ಖಾತೆಗೆ
ಜಮ ಮಾಡಿ, ಕೇಂದ್ರ ಕಛೇರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿ ನೀಡಿ ಈ ಕಥೆರಿಗೆ ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು ನೀಡಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ.
Benificiary Name : Agriculture Insurance Company of India Ltd., (Crop Insurance Oporation)
Account No : 009010200008495
Bank Name : Axis Bank Ltd,
Branch : M ೧ Road
IFSC Code : UTIBO000009
3 Bad, Peer,
ರ್ಗ.
ಚ SB Oba,
A“ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು. ಬೆಳ ವಿಮ ವಿಭಾಗ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು. ಇವರಿಗೆ
ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
CE Scanned with OKEN ಚ್ಚ

--- Page 54 ---
ಎ.
PRADHAN MANTRI FASAL BIMA YOJANA (PMFBY)
1. OBJECTIVES:

- To provide insurance coverage and financial support to the farmers in the
event of failure of any of the notified crop as a result of natural calamities,
pests & diseases.

- To stabilise the income of farmers to ensure their continuance in farming.

- To encourage farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices,

- To ensure flow of credit to the agriculture sector.

2, IMPLEMENTING AGENCY (IA):

a The Scheme shall be implemented through a multi-agency framework by selected
insurance companies under the overall guidance & control of the Department of
ಜ್ಯ Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW), Ministry of Agriculture &
Farmers Welfare (MoA&FW), Government of India (GOI) and the concerned State
in co-ordination with various other agencies; viz Financial Institutions like
Commercial Banks, Co-operative Banks, Regional Rural Banks and their regulatory
bodies, Government Departments viz. Agriculture, Co-operation, Horticulture,

Statistics, Revenue, Information/Science & Technology, Panchayati Raj etc.

we

3. DAC&FW has designated/empanelled Agriculture Insurance Company of
India(AIC) and some private insurance companies presently 10 participate in
the Government sponsored agriculture /crop insurance schemes based on their
financial strength, infrastructure, manpower and expertise etc. The empanelled
private insurance companies at present are 1) ICICI-Lombard General Insurance
8 Company Ltd. 2) HDFC-ERGO General Insurance Company Ltd. 3) IFFCO-Tokio
General Insurance Company Ltd. 4) Cholamandalam MS General Insurance
4

--- Page 55 ---
G2
Company Ltd. 5) Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd. 6) Reliance ಈ
General Insurance Company Ltd. 7) Future Generali India Insurance Company Ltd.
8) Tata-AIG General Insurance Company Ltd. 9) SBI General Insurance Company
Ltd. 10) Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd. The selection of
insurance company from amongst the empanelled insurance companies to act as
1A shall be done by the concerned State Government for implementation of the
scheme in their State. Such selection of IA shall be done from amongst the
designated / empanelled companies which shall be be initially pre-qualified
strictly on the basis of, experience, existence of infrastructure in the area and
quality of services like coverage of farmers & area, pay-outs in terms of quantum &
timely settlement thereof, willingness to do publicity & awareness campaigns etc.
The final selection of IA from amongst the pre-qualified insurance companies shall
be done based on the lowest weighted premium quoted by a pre-qualified company
for all notified crops within the cluster of districts
4. MANAGEMENT OF -THE SCHEME:
The existing State Level Co-ordination Committee on Crop Insurance (SLCCC1), Sub-
Committee to SLCCCI, District Level Monitoring Committee (DLMC) already
overseeing the implementation & monitoring of the ongoing crop insurance schemes
like National Agricultural Insurance Scheme (NAIS), Weather Based Crop Insurance
Scheme(WBCIS), Modified National Agricultural Insurance Scheme(MNAIS) and
Coconut Palm Insurance Scheme(CPIS) shall be responsible for proper management
of the Scheme. IA shall be an active member of SLCCCI and District Level Monitoring
Committee (DLMC) of the scheme.
5. UNIT OF INSURANCE:
The Scheme shall be implemented on an ‘Area Approach basis’ i.e., Defined Areas
. for each notified crop for widespread calamities with the assumption that all the ms
insured farmers, in a Unit of Insurance, to be defined as ‘Notified Area’ for a crop,
face similar risk exposures, incur to a large extent, identical cost of production per .
‘ 2

--- Page 56 ---
ಹ hectare, earn comparable farm income per hectare, and experience similar extent of
crop loss due to the operation of an insured peril, in the notified area.
Defined Area (i.e., unit area of insurance) is Village/Village Panchayat level by
whatsoever name these areas may be called for major crops and for other crops it
may be a unit of size above the level of Village/Village Panchayat.
In due course of time, the Unit of Insurance can be a Geo-Fenced/Geo-mapped
region having homogenous Risk Profile for the notified crop.
For Risks of Localised calamities and Post-Harvest losses on account of defined
peril, the Unit of Insurance for loss assessment shall be the affected insured field of
the individual farmer.
6. CROPS AND NOTIFIED AREA:
6.1.CROPS; The Scheme can cover all the Crops for which past yield data is available |
and grown during the notified season, in a Notified Area and for which yield
estimation at the Notified Area level will be available based on requisite number of
Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) being a part of the General Crop Estimation
Survey (GCES). *
6.2. NOTIFIED AREA: Notified Area is the Unit of Insurance decided by the State
Govt. for notifying a Crop during a season. The size of the Unit of Insurance shall
depend on the area under cultivation within the unit. For major crops, the Unit of
Insurance shall ordinarily be Village/Village Panchayat level and for minor
crops may be at a higher level so that the requisite number of CCEs could be
conducted during the notified crop season. States may notify Village / Village
Panchayat as insurance unit in case of minor crops too if they so desire.
ಇ
7. FARMERS TO BE COVERED: All farmers growing notified crops in a notified area
3
|

--- Page 57 ---
during the season who have insurable interest in the crop are eligible. ಆ
7.1. COMPULSORY COVERAGE: The enrolment under the scheme, subject to 5
possession of insurable interest on the cultivation of the notified crop in the
notified area, shall be compulsory for following categories of farmers:
7.1.1.Farmers in the notified area who possess a Crop Loan 20000717600 account
(called as Loanee Farmers) to whom credit limit is sanctioned/renewed for the
notified crop during the crop season,
AND.
7.4.2. Such other farmers whom the Government may decide to include from time to
time.
7.2. VOLUNTARY COVERAGE: Voluntary coverage may be obtained by all farmers =
not covered in 7.1 above, including Crop KCC/Crop Loan Account holders
whose credit limit is not renewed. ` i
8. RISKS TO BE COVERED & EXCLUSIONS:
8.1.RISKS: Following risks leading to crop loss are to be covered under the scheme :-
8.1.1, YIELD LOSSES (standing crops, on notified area basis): Comprehensive
risk insurance is provided to cover yield losses due to non-preventable risks, such
as
() Natural Fire and Lightning
(1). Storm, Hailstorm, Cyclone, Typhoon, Tempest, Hurricane, Tornado etc.
(1). Flood, Inundation and Landslide
(iv) Drought, Dry spells 5
(v) Pests/ Diseases etc.
4

--- Page 58 ---
. 8.1.2. PREVENTED SOWING (on notified area basis):- In cases where majority
of the insured farmers of a notified area, having intent to sow/plant and incurred
ಹ expenditure for the purpose, are prevented from sowing/planting the insured crop
due to adverse weather conditions, shall be eligible for indemnity claims upto a
maximum of 25% of the sum-insured.
8.1.3. POST-HARVEST LOSSES (individual farm basis): Coverage is available
upto a maximum period of 14 days from harvesting for those crops which are kept
in “cut & spread” condition to dry in the field after harvesting, against specific perils
of cyclone / cyclonic rains, unseasonal rains throughout the country.
8.1.4. LOCALISED CALAMITIES (individual farm basis): Loss / damage
resulting from occurrence of identified localized risks i.e. hailstorm, landslide, and
Inundation affecting isolated farms in the notified area.
5 8.2. EXCLUSIONS: Risks and Losses arising out of following perils shall be excluded;-
ಚ . War & kindred perils, nuclear risks, riots, malicious damage, theft, act of enmity, grazed
and/or destroyed by domestic and/or wild animals, In case of Post-Harvest losses the
harvested crop bundled and heaped at a place before threshing, other preventable
Tisks. .
9. SUM INSURED / LIMIT OF COVERAGE:
In case of Loanee farmers under Compulsory Component, the Sum Insured would
be equal to Scale of Finance for that crop as fixed by District Level Technical
Committee (DLTC) which may extend up to the value of the threshold yield of the
insured crop at the option of insured farmer. Where value of the threshold yield is lower
than the Scale of Finance, higher amount shall be the Sum Insured. Multiplying the
Notional Threshold Yield with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of the ‘current year
. arrives at the value of sum insured. Wherever Current year’s MSP is not available,
MSP of previous year shall be adopted. The crops for which, MSP is not declared, farm
ಸ 5
]

--- Page 59 ---
= ಬವ ತ್ತ ಭಾರತ ಸರ್‌ ಗಗ ಕ ಕಾ”
92
gate price established by the marketing department / board shall be adopted. ಆ,
Further, in case of Loanee farmers, the Insurance Charges payable by the farmers (5
shall be financed by loan disbursing office of the Bank, and will be treated as additional
component to the Scale of Finance for the purpose of obtaining loan.
For farmers covered on voluntary basis the sum-insured is upto the value of
Threshold yield i.e threshold yield x (MSP or gate price) of the insured crop.
10. PREMIUM RATES:
10.1 The Actuarial Premium Rate (APR) would be charged under PMFBY by IA.
DAC&FW/States will monitor the premium rates considering the basis of Loss
Cost (LC) i.e. Claims as % of Sum Insured (51) observed in case of the notified
crop(s) in notified unit area of insurance (whatsoever may be the level of unit ತ
area) during the preceding 10 similar crop seasons (Kharif / Rabi) and loading
for the expenses towards management including capital cost and insurer's margin >
and taking into account non-parametric risks and reduction in insurance unit size
etc.. The rate of Insurance Charges payable by the farmer will be as per the
following table:
Crops. —~—~—~—~*<|_~—Ss Maximum Insurance
charges payable by farmer
ml (% of Sum Insured)
2.0% of Si or Actuarial rate,
cereals, millets, & oilseeds, whichever is less
pulses)
Pe ದುರ] 1.5% of SI or Actuarial rate,
cereals, millets, & oilseeds, whichever is less
pulses)
5% of SI or Actuarial rate,
Rabi Horticultural crops whichever is less .
40.2 The difference between premium rate and the rate of Insurance charges payable ಸ್ಯ
6

--- Page 60 ---
8
4 by farmers shall be treated as Rate of Normal Premium Subsidy, which shall be
shared equally by the Centre and State.

10.3 AIC shall calculate LC premium rates (till an Independent Agency/TSU takes
over) based on latest available yield data in month of February for Kharif crops
and August for Rabi crops as per requirement of the States and shall provide to
DAC&FWiConcerned States before invitation for premium bidding.

10.4 State Govt. would invite all the empanelled insurance companies to quote their
actuarial premium rates for the notified crop(s) in the notified insurance unit
area, Indemnity Level, Threshold Yields, Sum Insured ete. as indicated by the =
State for the season.

10.5 For more effective implementation, selection of Implementing Agency (IA) may

ಪ be made through adopting the cluster approach under which bunch of about
15-20 good & bad districts / areas with reference to risks will be bid out. This will

ಆ facilitate the uniform distribution of the risks among the participating insurance
companies and will avoid selection of districts / areas according to company's
choice. In case of smaller States, the whole State shall be assigned to one IA.
This is also expected to take care of districts which have traditionally had high
actuarial premiums for crops due to high risk. Selection of [A may be made for
at least 3 years.

~*

10.6 The designated / empanelled companies participating in bidding have to bid the
premium rates for all the crops notified / to be notified by the State Govt. and
non-compliance will lead to rejection of company's bid.

10.7 The insurance coverage in terms of number of farmers & hectare-age should be

ಸ at least at the previous season's level.
` ತ

--- Page 61 ---
11. SHARING OF RISK: 6
Risk will be shared by IA and the Government as follows:
The liability of the Insurance companies in case of catastrophic losses computed at
the National level for an agricultural crop season, shall be upto 350% of total
premium collected (farmer share plus Govt. subsidy) or 35% of total Sum
Insured (51), of all the Insurance Companies combined, whichever 15 higher.
The losses at the National level ina crop season beyond this ceiling shall be
met by equal contribution (1,6, on 50:50 basis) from the Central Government
and the concerned State Governments.
12. ESTIMATION OF CROP YIELD:
The State/UT Govt. will plan and conduct the requisite number of Crop Cutting
Experiments (CCEs) for all notified crops in the notified insurance units in order to -
assess. the crop yield. The State / UT Govt. will maintain single series of Crop
Cutting Experiments (CCEs) and resultant Yield estimates, both for Crop :
Production estimates and Crop Insurance.
Crop Cutting Experiments (CCE) shall be undertaken per unit area /per crop, on a
sliding scale, as indicated below:
INSURANCE UNIT Minimum no, of CCEs required to be
done
a” |
| 2. [Taluka / Tehsil / Block Saas Saas
landal/Hobli/ Phirka / Revenue
ircle
4. 11206 / GramPanchayat/Patwar- 4 for major crops, 8 for other crops
jandal/Patwari-Halka
However, a Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) comprising representatives
8

--- Page 62 ---
60
. from Indian Agricultural Statistical Research Institute (IASRI), National Sample Survey
Organization (NSSO), Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (Gol) and
ತ implementing agencies shall dispose/decide the issues relating to CCEs and all other
technical matters. Inputs from RST/satellite imagery would also be utilized in
optimizing the sample size of CCEs.
Use of Mobile Phone Technology to improve Yield-data Quality & Timeliness
It has been felt that process of CCEs currently being conducted for estimating yield is
lacking in reliability and speed which affects the claims settlement. There is a need to
have good quality, timely and reliable yield-data. For addressing this problem,
videofimage capture of crop growth at various stages and transmission thereof with CCE
data on a real time basis utilizing mobile communication technology with GPS time
stamping, can improve data quality, / timeliness and support timely claim processing and
payments. States and insurance companies shall utilise this technology for the purpose.
+ The cost of using technology etc. for conduct of CCEs etc will be shared between
Central Government and State/U.T. Governments on 50:50 basis, wherever necessary,
| subject to a cap on total funds to be made available by Central Government for this
purpose based on approximate cost of procuring hand held devices/Smart phones and
other related costs.
13. INDEMNITY LEVEL (IL) and THRESHOLD YIELD (TY) :
13.1. Three levels of ‘Jndemnity, viz., 70%, 80% and 80% corresponding to crop
ಆ
Risk in the areas shall be available for all crops.
13.2. The Threshold Yield (TY)shall be the benchmark yield level at which
Insurance protection shall be given to all the insured farmers in an Insurance
Unit.
13.3. The Threshold Yield for a crop in an Insurance Unit shall be based on average
| yield of last seven years excluding two years of declared calamity if any,
multiplied by the level of indemnity of the area.
5 9

--- Page 63 ---
(1
Sum|[Last 7 Years of Yield %
(minus two notified calamity years if any)]
threshold Yield = Se X Level of Indemnity
414, CALENDER OF ACTIVITY:
The time-lines for coverage, submission of yield data, price data etc. shall be decided
by the SLCCCI strictly keeping in mind the onset of monsoon, sowing period, crop cycle
etc.
The seasonality discipline shall be same for loanee and non-loanee farmers.
The cut-off date is uniform for both loanee and non-loanee cultivators. Keeping in view
the prevailing agro-climatic conditions, rainfall distribution/irrigation water availabilities, |
sowing pattern etc. the SLCCCI, in consultation with the insurance company shall fix
seasonality disciplines of the coverage and other activities in such a way that it doesn’t ಕ
encourage adverse selection or moral hazards. Broad seasonality discipline is given in
the chart below. State wise details of seasonality will be provided in the Operational
Guidelines to be issued by DAC&FW.
= = [= |
-
4 Issuance of Administrative February August
ಹಾಗಾ 22.202.
2 Conduct of SLCCCI meeting to decide March September
for notification of Crops and Notified
areas, limits of Sum Insured and
adoption of Level of Indemnity etc. ಹ
10

--- Page 64 ---
62
ಆ Loanee farmers covered on December
eo)
a Cut-off date for receipt of Proposals of 31" July 31° December
| “| farmers (loanee & non-loanee). ಟಟ
Cut-off date for receipt of Declarations | Within 15 working | Within 15 working
of Loanee farmers covered ೦೧ | ೮2/5 for loanee | days for loanee
compulsory basis & non-loanee | farmers and seven | farmers and
farmers covered on Voluntary basis | working days for | seven working
from Bank branches to Respective | non-loanee farmers | days for non-
Nodal Offices. after cut-off date loanee —_ farmers
after cut-off date
Cut-off date for receipt of Declarations | Within two working | Within two
of farmers covered on Voluntary basis | days after receiving | working days after
from designated Insurance Agent(s) to | declaration/ receive
. Insurance Companies premium, declaration’
‘ premium.
ಕ್ರ 7 Cut-off date for receipt of Declarations | Within seven | Within seven
of Loanee farmers covered on | working days from | working days from
compulsory basis & non-loanee | receipt of | receipt of
farmers covered on Voluntary basis | Declarations by the | Declarations by
from Respective Nodal Offices of | Respective Nodal | the Respective
Banks to Insurance Company Offices of Banks. Nodal Offices of
ws Banks.
Cut-off date for receipt of yield data Within a = month | Within ೩ month
ee eed
15. PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSMENT, PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF
CLAIMS:
ಸ್‌ 15.1. Yield losses at Notified Area level: Once the Yield Data is received from the
State/UT Govt. as per the prescribed cut-off dates, claims will be processed,
i‘ 11

--- Page 65 ---
approved and settled by IA. .
15.1.1. If the ‘Actual Yield’ (AY) per hectare of the insured crop for the defined area [on
the basis of requisite number of Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs)] in the ss
insured season, falls short of the specified threshold yield(TY) Yield’ (RY), all
the insured farmers growing that crop in the defined area are deemed to have
suffered shortfall in their yield.
15.1.2. The Scheme seeks to provide protection against such contingency to all insured
farmers of an Insurance Unit.
15.1.3. Claim Pay-outs based on Yield losses shall be calculated as per the following
formula:
Shortfall in Yield
Slaims Pe pa wile Hn idea
Claims Payout = > aviata * Sum Insured ;
Where, .
ShortFall in Yield = (Threshold Yield — Actual Yield) ತ
15.2. Assessment of prevented Sowing: The adverse weather conditions shall be
defined in the notification and shall be captured by notified weather station/s in the
District. The extent of claims payable will be decided on the basis of weather data
recorded at the notified weather station/s for the purpose. The crop-wise scale of
Paymenty upto a maximum of 25% of Sum Insured shall be worked out by IA based ona
notified pay-out structure on the occurrence of pre-declared events such as month-wise
deficit in aggregate rainfall during a specified period assessed through Reference
Weather Stations tagged for the Notified / Group of Notified Area. The insurance
coverage shall cease to operate for the crop in the notified area. The cover is available
during Kharif season for recognised rain-fed areas and crops. The data provider will be
notified by the SLCCCI, ಇ
` 12

--- Page 66 ---
° 15.3. Localized Calamity Loss Assessment:
15.3.1. Loss assessment and modified indemnity procedures in case of occurrence of
localized perils, such as hailstorm, landslide, flood, and inundation shall be for a cluster
of affected farms or affected village and the settlement of claims, if any, will be each
insured farmer covered under assessment.
15.3.2. The District Administration will assist 1A in assessing the extent of loss.
15.4. Post-Harvest Loss Assessment:
15.4.1. Loss assessment and indemnity procedures in case of occurrence of Post-
Harvest Loss shall be for a cluster of affected farms or affected village and the
settlement of claims, if any, will be each insured farmer covered under assessment.
15.4.2. The District Administration will assist IA in assessing the extent of loss.
15.5. | On-Account Payment of Claims due to Mid-Season Adversity:
= 15.5.1. In case of adverse seasonal conditions during crop season viz. floods,
prolonged dry spells, severe drought, unseasonal rains, IA in consultation with
concerned State Government/UT based on agro meteorological data/ satellite imagery
or any other proxy indicator will decide about crops/ areas for which on account
payment will be made, not exceeding 25% of likely claims.
15.5.2. Appraisal of mid-season adversity and quantum of on-account payment will be
established Jointly by Government of India/concerned State Govemment/UT and IA.
15.5.3. On account payment will be implemented only in those districts/notified areas
where such proxy indicators can be established and will be considered for payment and
only if the expected yield during the season is likely to be less than 50% of normal yield.
= 15.6. IA shall process the claims liability assessed as per above mentioned
methodology and approve the claims.
: 13

--- Page 67 ---
aS .:
69
16. PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF CLAIMS: |
46.1. For coverage through Banks:-The claim amount along with particulars will be
released to the individual Nodal Banks. The Banks at the grass-root level, in turn,
shall credit the accounts of the individual farmers and display the particulars of
beneficiaries on their notice board. The Banks shall provide individual farmer
wise details claim credit details to |A and shall be incorporated in the centralised
data repository.
16.2. For coverage through other insurance intermediaries: The claim amount will
be released electronically to the individual Insured Bank Account.
Acreage discrepancy
Some areas in the past have reported excess insurance coverage vis-a-vis planted ಹ
~ acreage, leading to ‘over’ insurance. Ideally the discrepancy should be handled at farm
level to protect the interest of farmers with genuine insurance coverage. However, in the .
absence of digitized farm records on a GIS platform, it would be cumbersome to
physically verify each farm. For the time-being, it is to be addressed as follows:
- Wherever the ‘acreage discrepancy’ is likely, the acreage insured at IU level shall be
compared with average planted acreage of past three years, and the difference will be
fréated as ‘excess’ insurance coverage.
- Sum insured may be scaled down in the ratio the average of three years’ actual
planted acreage bears to the insured acreage for the given crop.
- Claims shall be calculated on the scaled down sum insured
~ Premium shall be retained by the insurance company for the portion of sum insured
scaled down.
14

--- Page 68 ---
66
. Once the individual farms (plots / survey numbers) are digitized and available on a GIS
platform, it is possible to overlay the crop cover as derived using satellite imagery on the
ಈ GIS platform to identify the crop and estimate the cropped area on each farm. This should
lead to identifying the acreage discrepancy at individual farm level.

17, MANAGEMENT OF THE SCHEME AND REVIEW:

17.1. Government of India shall issue operational guidelines and modalities, which may
be appended from time to time, for implementation of the scheme provisions with
detailed steps and processes involved, terms and condition applicable, roles and
responsibilities of various agencies involved in execution of the scheme and roles
and responsibilities of other related stakeholders.

17.2. These operational modalities shall be considered as part of the scheme.

17.3. The scheme may be reviewed periodically and additions, deletions and
modifications of the provisions may be done as deemed necessary.

ತ 17.4. During each crop season, the agricultural situation will be closely monitored in
» the implementing States / Union Territories, The State / UT Department of
ic Agriculture and district administration shall set up a District Level Monitoring
Committee (DLMC), who will provide fortnightly reports of Agricultural situation
with details of area sown, seasonal weather conditions, pest incidence, stage of

crop failure (if any) 610.

17.5. The operation of the Scheme will be reviewed annually, and modifications as
may be required would be introduced. Periodic Appraisal Reports on the Scheme
would be prepared by Ministry of Agriculture, the Government of India /
Implementing Agency.

18. PUBLICITY & AWARENESS:

18.1. Adequate publicity needs to be given in all the villages of the notified districts/

ಕ areas. All possible means of electronic and print media, farmer's fair, exhibitions
including SMS messages, short films, and documentaries shall be utilized to create and
15

--- Page 69 ---
ha
disseminate awareness, benefits and limitations of the Scheme among the cultivators ೫
and the agencies involved in implementing the Scheme. Agriculture/Cooperation
Department of the States in consultation with IA shall work out appropriate Plan for ಹ
adequate awareness and publicity three months prior to the start of coverage period.
18.2. IA shall also assist the State Government/ UT in capacity building for effective
implementation of the scheme and organize training workshops/sensitization
programme for various stakeholders.
19, SERVICE TAX:
19.1. PMFBY is a replacement scheme of NAIS / MNAIS, and hence exempted from
Service Tax liability of all the services involved in the implementation of the scheme.
20. USE OF INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY:
DAC&FW shall carry out pilots in select areas, in collaboration with various States/UTs, ತ
national and international research organisations / institutes, IMD, insurance companies,
reinsurers etc. to make use of available technology in the fields of remote sensing, aerial ಹ
imagery, satellites etc. that can help in acreage estimation, crop health / loss estimation,
quicker yield estimation etc. with reduced manpower & infrastructure. With development
of number of satellites with high resolution images orbiting the Earth, there have been
great improvements in satellite imagery products. It has been reasonably proven the
satellite imagery can help in demarcating the cropped areas into clusters on the basis of
= trop health. This feature can be successfully used to target the CCEs within the
Insurance Unit (IU). Thus satellite imagery can help in ‘smart sampling’ of ೮೦೫೩. While
an 10 with heterogeneous crop health may need standard sample of CCEs, for eg. 4
CCEs per Village / Village Panchayat for major crops, the more homogenous IU may
need a lower sample size, say 2 CCEs. This is expected to minimize the total CCEs
needed by about 30-40%. States should progressively adopt this technique in generating
yield estimates. 2
16

--- Page 70 ---
68
. After proven strong correlation between RST / Satellite Imageries results and yield
estimates through CCEs, States may use the technologies in estimating the crop yields at
ಶಿ IU level, subject to the satisfaction of Central and State Governments and insurance
companies with the accuracy of the yield estimates to service the claims.

20.1. The integrity of CCEs will be verified by use of GPRS enabled Mobile phones
with cameras/smart phones. These phones will also help in addressing the problem
of area discrepancy by capturing pictures of standing crops and will also help in
quicker, accurate estimation of yields.

20.2. Such technologies, after due consideration of pilot results by the Government
shall be included in the Scheme.

20.3. All state government shall use technology initiatives in the conduct and
supervision of CCEs to provide the yield data with minimum delay to IA for quick
processing of the claims. The state governments shall also use technology

೩ initiatives in the reporting of loss reports for on-account claim settlement, Claim
intimations for Localized calamity and Post-Harvest losses.

ಡ್‌ 20.4. A centralized repository shall be maintained. Appropriate application (web based,
app based etc.) would be developed by NIC, The State Government, IA, Banks,
Insurance Intermediaries shall use this applications for inputting various operational
data like notification related data, individual farmer wise insurance coverage and
claims details, crop loss details etc.

21..REVIEW OF THE SCHEME
State Governments will review the performance of the scheme after one year and
point out corrections, if any, required in any of the provisions of the scheme to
Govt. of India.

= 7

--- Page 71 ---
I 1 ee er ಯ.“ — ಬಟ್ಟ!
Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (WBCIS):- .
The structure of farmer's premium under WBCIS will be at par with the
proposed PMFBY. Also, the Criteria of selection of Implementing Agency and
area allocation will be same as PMFBY.
Existing Premium Subsidy Structure
Premium Slab | Subsidy by Central and State Government on 50 : 50 basis
and premium payable by farmer =
[| Upto 2% No subsidy.
2 >2-5% 25% subsidy subject to minimum net premium of 2%
payable by farmer.
3. >5-8% 40% subsidy subject to minimum net premium of 3.75%
payable by farmer
4. > 8% 50% subsidy subject to minimum net premium of 4.8% and
maximum net premium of 6% payable by farmers. z
Revised Premium Subsidy Structure i
The rate of Insurance Charges payable by the farmer will be as per the following table:
S.No | Season Crops Maximum Insurance
charges payable by farmer
(% of Sum Insured)
ma 1 Kharit | Food & Oilseeds crops (all 2.0% of SI or Actuarial rate,
೫ cereals, millets, & oilseeds, | ೫71೦೧೮೪೮೯15 less
pulses)
2 Rabi Food & Oilseeds crops (all 1.5% of 5! or Actuarial rate,
cereals, millets, & oilseeds, whichever is less
pulses)
Kharif & | Annual Commercial /Annual | 5% of Sl or Actuarial rate,
Rabi Horticultural crops whichever is less
18

--- Page 72 ---
ಶಾ
Unified Package Insurance Scheme (೧15)
° 1. Nature of the Scheme:
1.1 Unified Package Insurance Scheme aims at providing financial protection to citizens
associated in agriculture sector, thereby ensuring food security, crop diversification and
enhancing growth and competitiveness of agriculture sector besides protecting farmers
from financial risks,
The cover will be for one full year except for Crop Insurance (which will be bi-annual
separately for Kharif and Rabi seasons) renewable from year to year. The scheme
would be offered / administered through AIC & empanelled General Insurance
Companies willing to offer the product on similar terms with necessary approvals and
allocation of area on pilot basis.
The Loanee farmers will be covered through Banks/Financial Institutions whereas non-
2 * — loanee farmer shall be covered through banks and/or insurance intermediaries.
Suitability:

a) This policy is designed to take care of the insurance needs of farmers associated
with agriculture activities. This policy provides yield based crop insurance to the
farmer based on his ownership rights of land and sown crop.

b) It covers both the personal assets of the farmer like the dwelling & its contents

ಇರೆ (Fire), the other assets which help him in earning his livelihood such as
Agricultural Pump Sets, and Agriculture Tractor owned by farmer.

c) The policy also provides protection 10 farmer and his/her family members in case
of the Accidental Death / Disablement, accidental insurance protection of
farmer's school/college going children and provisioning of education fee to the
students in case of death of parent.

= d) Life insurance protection to the farmer and his/her family members.

6) The policy will be issued for a period up to 1 year.

19

--- Page 73 ---
HH
Salient Features and Benefits:
1. The farmers package policy will be underwritten by the General Insurance
Companies empanelled by DAC&FW under crop insurance programmes and/or
designated by this Department or through GIC Companies having tie-up with
concerned F.|./Banks for non-crop sections of the policy.
2. The policy contains 7 Sections. Crop Insurance is mandatory. However, farmers
have to choose at least two other sections also to avail the applicable subsidy
under crop insurance section.
3. In case of crop insurance, applicable Farmer's share of premium ranging
between 1.5% to 5% based on their insured crops is payable by farmer & in case
Actuarial premium is more, the Government will provide subsidy equivalent to
the difference between Actuarial premium and premium paid by farmer. The crop
insurance is based on area approach whereas all other sections are on individual Pa
ಶಿ basis.
4. If the farmers ‘already availed any insurance policy of similar nature and sum 5
insured not less than as mentioned in the policy than they would be exempted
from taking such section(s). However details of such policy would be provided in
their proposal form.
5. The rates above are indicative & subject to the concurrence of the insurers.
6. Sum Insured and premium rates are provisionally taken and may change
according to the risk(s).
7. The detailed section wise tentative sum insured and applicable premium for the
farmer(s) are in the proposal forms enclosed at Annexure-1
8. The above premium rates are without service tax which is likely to be exempted.
ಇ
The Section - wise details of the scheme are as under:
20

--- Page 74 ---
AQ
: SECTION-1
a CROP INSURANCE :- PMFBY/WBCIS/ — State can choose any of these two
SECTION -2
BUILDING AND CONTENTS INSURANCE (FIRE AND ALLIED PERILS)
The indemnity under this section is based on declared sum insured basis (first loss
basis)
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss of or damage to the
Contents/Buildings whilst contained in the insured premises by:
a) Fire, Lighting, Explosion of gas in domestic appliances,
b) Bursting and overflowing of water tanks, apparatus or pipes,
c) Aircraft or articles dropped therefrom,
d) Riot, Strike, or Malicious Act,
: ಅ) Earthquake, (Fire and / or Shock) Subsidence and Landslide (including Rockslide)
ಬ damage
f) Flood, inundation, storm, tempest, typhoon, hurricane, tornado or cyclone.
g) Impact damage
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
The Company shall not be liable in respect of:
a) Loss or damage by burglary and / or housebreaking or theft where any member of
ಆ
ತ್‌ the insured’s family is concerned as principal or accessory.
b) Loss of or damage to articles of consumable nature.
c) Loss of or damage to money, securities, stamps, stamp collections, bullion,
livestock, motor vehicles and pedal cycles.
d) Loss of or damage to deeds, bonds, bills of exchange, promissory notes, shares and
stock certificates, business books, manuscripts, documents of any kind, unset
: precious stones and Jewelry and Valuable.
: 21
|

--- Page 75 ---
=
“A>
SECTION —3 ಪ್ದ
Personal Accident Insurance -
(Coverage as per Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana)
DETAILS OF THE SCHEME:
The scheme will be a one year cover, renewable from year to year, Accident
Insurance Scheme offering accidental death and disability cover for death or disability
on account of an accident. The scheme would be offered / administered through
Public Sector General Insurance Companies (PSGICs) and other General Insurance
Companies willing to offer the product on similar terms with necessary approvals and
tie up with Banks for this purpose. Participating banks will be free to engage any such
insurance company for implementing the scheme for their subscribers.
Scope of coverage: All savings bank account holders in the age 18 to 70 years in
participating banks will be entitled to join. In case of multiple saving bank accounts
held by an individual in one or different banks, the person would be eligible to join the
scheme through one savings bank account only. Aadhar would be the primary KYC.
for the bank account. ಬ
Enrollment Modality / Period: The cover shall be for the one year period stretching
ಸೆ from 15 June to 31" May for which option to join / pay by auto-debit from the
| designated savings bank account on the prescribed forms will be required to be given
| by 31% May of every year, extendable up to 315 August. Joining subsequently on
payment of full annual premium may be possible on specified terms. However,
applicants may give an indefinite / longer option for enrollment / auto-debit, subject to
continuation of the scheme with terms as may be revised on the basis of past .
experience. Individuals who exit from the scheme at any point may re-join the scheme 3
in future years through this modality. New entrants into the eligible category from year
to year or currently eligible individuals who did not join earlier shall be able to join in ಹ
22 ಇ

--- Page 76 ---
ಇ future years while the scheme is continuing.
. Benefits: As per the following table:
|__| Table of Benefits Sum Insured |
fae Deaths ee
Total and irrecoverable loss of both eyes or loss of use of
both Rs. 2 Lakh
hands or feet or loss of sight of one eye and loss of use of
hand or
foot
Total and irrecoverable loss of sight of one eye or loss of
use of Rs. 1 Lakh
one hand or foot
Premium: Rs.12/- per annum per member. The premium will be deducted from the
account holder’s savings bank account through ‘auto debit' facility in one installment
on or before 1*June of each annual coverage period under the scheme. However, in
cases where auto debit takes place after 1% June, the cover shall commence from the

. first day of the month following the auto debit.

“ Eligibility Conditions: The savings bank account holders of the participating banks
aged between 18 years (completed) and 70 years (age nearer birthday) who give
their consent to join / enable auto-debit, as per the above modality, will be enrolled
into the scheme. In case of Joint Account holders, both the account holders are
eligible to join on payment of premium for each account holders.

ತ್‌ Master Policy Holder: Participating Bank will be the Master policy holder on
behalf of the participating subscribers. A simple and subscriber friendly
administration & claim settlement process shall be finalized by the respective
general insurance company in consultation with the participating Banks.
Termination of cover: The accident cover for the member shall terminate on any of the
ಸ following events and no benefit will be payable there under: a
1) On attaining age 70 years (age nearest birthday).
. 23

--- Page 77 ---
5
AS
2) At the time of renewal, closure of account with the Bank or insufficiency of *
balance to keep the insurance in force.
| 3) In case a member is covered through more than one account and premium is |
received by the Insurance Company inadvertently, insurance cover will be
restricted to one only and the premium shall be liable to be forfeited.
4) If the insurance cover is ceased due to any technical reasons such as
insufficient balance on due date for renewal or due to any administrative
issues, the same can be reinstated on receipt of full annual premium, subject
to conditions that may be laid down. During this period, the risk cover will be
suspended and reinstatement of risk cover will be at the sole discretion of
Insurance Company. |
5) Participating banks will deduct the premium amount in the same month when
the auto debit option is given, preferably in May of every year, and remit the
amount due to the Insurance Company in that month itself.
Administration:
The scheme, subject to the above, will be administered as per the standard procedure
stipulated by the Insurance Company. The data flow process and data proforma will be
provided separately. %
It will be the responsibility of the participating bank to recover the appropriate annual
premium from the account holders within the prescribed period through ‘auto-debit’
process.
Enrollment form / Auto-debit authorization in the prescribed proforma shall be obtained
and retained by the participating bank. In case of claim, the Insurance Company may
seek submission of the same. Insurance Company reserves the right to call for these 3
documents at any point of time. ಈ ಆ
The experience of the scheme will be monitored on yearly basis for re-calibration etc., ಕಃ
24 =

--- Page 78 ---
. as may be necessary.
* Appropriation of Premium:
1) Insurance Premium to Insurance Company: Rs.10/- per annum per member
2) Reimbursement of Expenses to BC/Micro/Corporate/Agent : Rs.1/- per annum
per member
3) Reimbursement of Administrative expenses to participating Bank: Rs.1/- per
annum per member
The scheme is liable to be discontinued prior to commencement of a new future renewal
date if circumstances so require.
SECTION - 4.
Agriculture Pumpset Insurance (Upto 10 Horse Power)
3 The Insurance covers the Centrifugal pump sets (electrical and diesel) upto 10
Horsepower capacity which are used for agricultural purposes only.
SCOPE OF COVER:
a) Fire & lightning
b) /Burglary (due to violent forcible entry provided the pump set is kept in a locked
- enclosure).
c) Mechanical / electrical
d) Riot, Strike, malicious damage
SPECIFIC EXCLUSION TO AGRICULTURAL PUMPSET INSURANCE < .
a) Normal wear & tear, gradual deterioration due to atmospheric condition or otherwise,
. 25

--- Page 79 ---
5

b) Wilful act or gross negligence of the Insured or his representatives. a
c) Faults existing at the time of commencement of insurance and known to the Insured

or his representative. ಔ
d) Loss or damage for which the manufacturer or supplier of property is responsible

either by law or under contract.
6) Cost of dismantling, transport to workshop and back as also cost of re-erection.
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
In the event of any occurrence which might give rise to a claim under this Section, the
Insured shall -
a) immediately notify the Policy issuing Office of the Company by telephone or

telegram as well as in writing giving an indication as to the nature and extent of loss

or damage.
b) take reasonable steps within his power to minimise / restrain the loss or damage

of liability. .
c) preserve the damaged or defective parts and make them available for inspection by

an Official or Surveyor of the Company. <
d) furnish all such information and documentary evidences as the Company may

require.
8) the Company shall not be liable for any loss or damage on which notice and

completed claim form have not been received by the Company within 14 days ofits +

occurrence.
The liability of the Company under this Section in respect of any item of property
sustaining damage for which indemnity is provided, shall cease if the same item is kept
in operation without being repaired to the satisfaction of the Company.

SECTION -5
AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS INSURANCE ಜ್ನ |
As per the provisions, terms, exceptions, conditions and endorsements as per standard
Motor Policy. a
26 ೯

--- Page 80 ---
Covers the insured against loss or damage to the Agriculture Tractor by fire, explosion,
ಪ್ದ self-ignition or lightning, burglary, housebreaking, theft, riot and strike, earthquake, fire
and shock, inundation, typhoon, hurricane, storm, tempest, cyclone, hailstorm, frost,
landslide/rockslides by accidental external means, malicious act, terrorism activity while
in transit by road, rail, inland waterway. Also provides coverage against death or
permanent disablement of the driver, due to an accident while driving the Tractor
insured during any one policy period.
Legal Liability to Third Parties: - Compensates for death/ bodily injury to third parties up
to in the event of tractor being involved in an accident as per M.V. Act, 1988.
SECTION —6
STUDENT SAFETY INSURANCE
Schedule of Benefits (for Parent/ Student): SI per student
ಜ್ಯ 1. Accidental death: Rs. 50000 (parent/student)
2. Permanent total disablement: Rs. 50000 (student)
3. Loss of one limb/Eye: Rs. 25000 (student)
4. Accidental hospitalization: Rs. 5000 (student) .
In case of death of Father or Mother, the Claim amount to be converted into FD in
the name of student till attainment of adulthood.
Part 1
A) If at any time during the currency of this policy the parent / guardian/ student
named in the schedule shall sustain any bodily injury resulting solely and directly
from accident caused by external violent and visible means and if such injury 3
ಇ
. shall within six calendar months of the occurrence be the sole and direct cause of
death or total and irrecoverable loss of two limbs or two eyes or 100%
ಜಿ 27

--- Page 81 ---
ಇಸು! a
AA
Permanent Total Disablement (permanently totally and absolutely disable the ಈ
parent /guardian from engaging in any employment or occupation of any
description whatsoever) then the company shall pay to the insured Student or ಷ್ಣ
parent / guardian as the case may be the capital sum insured stated in the
schedule.
B)In addition to the above benefit mentioned under (A) (if liability is admitted under
clause A above) the student shall be reimbursed for the unexpired period of
study, the tuition fee, development expenses, boarding and lodging charges and
other insured expenses (excluding payments made prior to accident and / or
overdue payments as on date of accident) on actual basis subject to the
maximum limits as stated in the schedule of benefit.
Part 2&3 .
If at-any time during the currency of this policy the insured Student shall sustain any ಜಿ
bodily injury resulting solely and directly from accident caused by external violent and
visible means and if such injury shall within six calendar months of the occurrence be
the sole and direct cause of death or total and irrecoverable loss of two limbs or two
eyes or 100% Permanent Total Disablement (permanently totally and absolutely disable
the insured student from engaging in any employment or occupation of any description
whatsoever) then the company shall pay to the parent / guardian or insured Student as
the case may be the capital sum insured stated in the schedule of benefits. In case of
; death of both student and the parent / guardian named in the schedule of the policy
resulting solely and directly from same accident caused by outward, violent and visible
means, within six calendar months of its occurrence then the company shall pay the
legal heir of the parent / guardian sums stated in the schedule. .
ಹ
೧೩4
5 28

--- Page 82 ---
ಇ Subject to the terms, conditions & exclusions the Company undertakes that if during the
period stated in the Policy any insured student contracts any disease or suffers from
ತ್ರ any illness or sustains any bodily injury through accident, and takes treatment at any
Nursing Home/Hospital in India as an inpatient, the Company will pay to the Insured
Person such expenses as are reasonably and necessarily incurred subject to the limits
prescribed but not exceeding the Sum Insured in any one period of insurance stated
against that person in the policy.
SECTION —7

LIFE INSURANCE

(as per Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojna (PMJJBY)

Benefits:

1. Death Cover : Rs. 2,00,000 per member
ಆ 2. To be provided by Life Insurance Companies
ಟ್‌ RULES OF THE SCHEME

a) In these Rules, the following words and expressions shall unless repugnant to the
context, have the following meanings:- ಸ

0) “THE SCHEME” shall mean ‘PRADHAN MANTRI JEEVAN JYOTI BIMA YOJANA’
for the Savings Bank Account Holders of ‘BANK’.

c) “THE RULES” shall mean the Rules of the Scheme as set out below and as
amended from time to time.

d) “THE MEMBER" shall mean a Savings Bank Account Holder who has been admitted
to benefits of the Scheme and on whose life an assurance has been or is to be
effected in accordance with these Rules.

e) “TERMINAL DATE” shall mean in respect of each Member the Annual Renewal = =

ಕ Date following the date on which member completes the age of 55 or the member
closes his account with the Bank or discontinuance of premium payment whichever
* 29

--- Page 83 ---
6

. 81

is earlier. ಈ
f) "THE ASSURANCE" shall mean the particular Assurance to be effected on the life of

the Member. .
g) “THE BENEFICIARY” shall mean the person or persons who has/have been

appointed by the Member as Nominee and whose name or names have been

entered in the Bank Records.

ELIGIBILITY:-

The savings bank account holder of the participating banks aged between 18 years

(completed) and 50 years (age nearer birthday) and who have given the consent to

join the scheme during the ‘enrollment period’ are eligible to join the scheme.

ADMISSION OF AGE:

Age as recorded by the Bank as per the Age Proof submitted by the Savings Bank .
. Account holder. =

EVIDENCE OF HEALTH:

Satisfactory evidence of health as required by the insurance company shall be

furnished by every eligible member, at the time of his entry into the Scheme, after

the ‘Enrollment Period’, as incorporated in the “Consent-cum- Declaration Form” for

joining the scheme.

PREMIUM:

Premium to be deducted from member's SB Account. The premium is Rs.330/- plus

Service Tax (if payable) irrespective of date of entry i.e. during enrollment period or

after that date during the first year. Renewal premium is chargeable as per tiie rate

decided from time to time on Annual Renewal dates. |

ASSURANCE: é

; ಡರ

--- Page 84 ---
§2-
An assurance of Rs.2,00,000/- on death of the insured member is payable to the
ಸ Nominee.

BENEFITS ON DEATH PRIOR TO TERMINAL DATE :
Upon the death of the Member prior to Terminal Date, the sum assured under the
Assurance shall be payable to the nominated Beneficiary, provided the assurance is
kept in force by payment of premium for that member.
TERMINATION OF ASSURANCE:
The Assurance on the life of a Member shall terminate on an Annual Renewal Date
upon happening of any of the following events and no benefit will become payable
thereunder:-On attaining age 55 years (age nearest birthday) on annual renewal
date.

ದ Closure of account with the Bank or insufficiency of balance to keep the insurance in
force.
SUSPENSION OF RISK:
If the insurance cover is ceased due to any technical reasons such as insufficient
balance for payment of premium on due date of renewal, the same can be reinstated ~
after the grace period on receipt of premium and a satisfactory statement of good
health.
RESTRAINT ON ANTICIPATION OR ENCUMBRANCE :
The benefits assured under the Scheme are strictly personal and cannot be
assigned, charged or alienated in any way.
DISCONTINUANCE OR AMENDMENT OF THE SCHEME: = ಹ

| The “8278” or Insurance Company reserves the right to discontinue the Scheme at
4 31

--- Page 85 ---
=
any time or to amend the Rules thereof on any Annual Renewal Date subject to 7
giving one month's notice. Any amendment to the Rules of the Scheme will be done
based on mutual agreement between Insurance Company and “Bank”. |
JURISDICTION:
All Assurances issued under the Scheme shall be Indian Contracts. They will be
subject to Indian Laws including the Insurance Act, 1938 as amended, the Income
Tax Act, 1961 and to any legislation subsequently introduced. All benefits under the
Scheme arising out of death of any Member shall be payable in Indian Rupees.
GENERAL CONDITIONS AND DEFINITIONS FOR ALL SECTIONS ~
Notice:
Every notice and communication to the Company required by this Policy shall be in
writing to the Policy issuing Office of the Company.
Misdescription:
This Policy shall be void and all premium paid hereon shall be forfeited to the Company ಸ
in the event of misrepresentation, misdescription or non-disclosure of any material
particular.
Reasonable Care:
The Insured shall take all reasonable steps to safeguard the property insured against
any loss or damage. The Insured shall exercise reasonable care that only competent
employees are employed and shall take all reasonable precautions to prevent all
accidents and shall comply with all statutory or other regulations.
Cancellation: (Except Sections-1,3&8- PMFBY/WBCIS, PMSBY & PMJJBY)
The Policy may be terminated at the request of the Insured in which case the
Insurance Company will retain the premium for the period this Policy hhas been in a
force at the short period scales of rates, subject to the retention of minimum
> 32

--- Page 86 ---
Pz
* premium of Rs. 100 by the Insurer, No refund of premium shall be made if a claim is
reported in the policy.
ಹ The details of the cancellation procedure are as per guidelines.

Claims Procedure:

i) The Insured shall upon the occurrence of any event giving rise or likely to give rise to
a claim under this Policy:

a) In the event of theft lodge forthwith a complaint with the Police and shall take all
practicable steps to apprehend the guilty person or persons and to recover the
property lost.

b) Give immediate notice thereof to the Company and shall within Fourteen (14)
days thereafter furnish to the Company at his own expense detailed particulars of
the amount of the loss or damage, together with such explanation and evidence

. to substantiate the claim as the Company may reasonably require.
ii) 1! the Insured or member of the Insured’s family comprising the Insured’s spouse
and children shall die, notice of death shall be given by the legal representative(s)
forthwith. All certificates information and evidence whether from a Medical Attendant
or otherwise required by the Company shall be furnished at the expense of the

Insured or his legal representatives and shall be in such form and of such nature as

the Company may prescribe..

ili) The Insured shall upon the occurrence of any event giving rise or likely to give rise
to a claim under the Policy give immediate notice thereof to the Company and shall
forward to the Company forthwith every written notice or information of any verbal
notice of claim and shall send to the Company any writ, summons or other legal
process issued or commenced against the Insured and shall give all necessary
information and assistance to enable the Company to settle or resist any claim or to
institute proceedings. The Insured shall not incur any expenses in making goad any

ಈ claim without the prior consent of the Company and shall not negotiate, pay, settle,
admit or repudiate any claim without such consent.
a 33

--- Page 87 ---
a 5
5
Contribution:
In the event of any loss damage liability or expenses covered by this Policy there shall m
be any other insurance covering the same loss damage liability or expenses, whether
effected by the Insured or not this Policy shall pay only so much of the excess of such
loss damage liability or expenses as is not recoverable under such other insurance
subject always to the limitations of this Policy.
Fraud:
If any claim under this Policy shall in any respect be fraudulent or if any fraudulent
means or devices are used by the Insured or any one acting on the Insured’s behalf to
obtain any benefit under this Policy, all benefits under the Policy shall be forfeited.
Indemnity:
The Company may at its option reinstate/replace or repair the property or premises lost °
or damaged or any part thereof instead of paying the amount of the loss or damage or
may join with any other insurer in so doing but the Company shall not be bound to ಬ
reinstate exactly or completely but only as circumstances permit and in reasonably
sufficient manner and in no case shall the Company be bound to expend more in
reinstatement than it would have cost to reinstate such property as it was at the time of
occurrence of such loss or damage and not more than the Sum Insured by the
Company thereon.
ಸಾಗ
Average:
If the property hereby insured shall at the time of any loss or damage be collectively of
greater value than the Sum Insured thereon, then the Insured shall be considered as
being his own insurer for the difference, and shall bear a ratable proportion of the loss
gr damage accordingly. Every item insured, if more than one, of the Policy, shall be
“separately subject to this condition. : .
ಜ್ಞ 34

--- Page 88 ---
86

ಇ Grievance Redressal Mechanism

ಬು To address any grievance/ complaint under the scheme, a committee consisting of
District Agriculture Officer (Nodal Officer), representatives of implementing insurance
company and bank/ financial institution shall be constituted. The working of the
grievance committee will be monitored by District Level Monitoring Committee (DLMC)
under the chairmanship of District Magistrate.
Observance of Terms and Conditions:
The due observance and fulfillment of the terms, conditions and endorsement of this
Policy in so far as they relate to anything to be done or complied with by the Insured
shall be a condition precedent to any liability of the Company to make any payment
under this Policy.
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS

2 The Company shall not be liable in respect of:

4 1, Loss or damage, liability or expenses whether directly or indirectly, occasioned by
happening through or arising from any consequences of war, invasion, act of foreign
enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not) civil war, rebellion, revolution,
insurrection, mutiny, military, or usurped power or civil commotion or loot or pillage in
connection herewith.

2. Loss or damage caused by depreciation or wear and tear

3. Consequential loss of any kind or description.

4. a) Loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by or arising from or in consequence
of or contributed to by nuclear weapons material.

b) This Insurance does not cover loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by or
arising from or in consequence of or contributed to by ionising radiation or
contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste

. from the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of Condition 3 (0) only
combustion shall include any self-sustaining process of nuclear fission.
ಕ 35

--- Page 89 ---
೩2) Arm -—E4
ANZ),
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana
0 ಸತ
nk ay ಬ್‌
1 ee ne ಕ
“| Sees Revamped
<a ee Operational Guidelines
(Effective from Kharif 2020) te
wep
ಸ ಸ ಯ
Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare
Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare
ದ Government of India
Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110004 |

--- Page 90 ---
a9
೧3
SI. No. Section Page No.
Abbreviations
1 Objective of the Scheme 1 .
2 | Adoption of Technology for Scheme Administration 2-4
c= =
ಹ್‌ Coverage of Crops 5
| 5s | Coverage of Risks & Exclusions 5 9 |
[| 6 _ | Preconditions for Implementation of the Scheme
adgement of Common Service Centres Hache &
alermedisties for Coverage of Non Loanee Farmers =a |
—_ ee ಜಾ |
ಷರ್ಟ್‌] ೯] -
ತ್ಕ Abilis ತತ ಗರ್ವ]
‘| Technical Support Unit TSUyCentral Progranin |
ಊಟ ಟ್ಟ Unit (CPMU) 6 |, a ಕೆ
ರಾಸ ವಾ ಇ 7 ಇತ್ತೆ 1. [ಇನ
| [17 | GigcionotAppcaions andre romFemere || 58-41
‘Assessment of Claims & Claim Settieme
ತ 22.73ರ 8007 of Loss Assessors/Evaluators for Loss SK
Assessment under the Scheme .
| _23 _ | Procedure for Settlement of Claims to the Farmers
Important Conditions/Clauses Applicable for Coverage of Risks | 89-90 .
| 2 | Acreage Discrepancy 90-91
| 26 | Information Education and Communication (IEC) [92-94 |
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 91 ---
ರಗ seston Pome
as ಾ ಸಾ
ಹಾರ ಜಾಾಾರಾಾಾ
2 a
ಹಪ ಸಾಮಾ 727 [19-708 |
Assessment of Performapiée and De iba 7511115111 o i
Insurance Compai ED a Fi i aN
ae ee a YY ೫. ಇಡಾ
a See Ne | ce
“we the
:
+ i
www.pmfby.gov.in | |
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 92 ---
Fo
ABBREVIATIONS
ADDNEVIAIMyY
ACF Area Correction Factor
AEPS Aadhaar Enabled Payment System ಹ
AIC Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited
AI&ML Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning
API Application Programming Interface .
APR Actuarial Premium Rate
ARG Automatic Rain Gauge
AU Administrative Unit
AWIFS ‘Advanced Wide Field Sensor
AWS Automatic Weather Stations
AY Actual Yield ee:
BC Banking Coffespondent | § 6 5 | | ty
CAG Compiedilengnd Auditor General, ~*~
cB Conifergil Banks 1 | | i | eS
05 Q6re 8.070 Solution | ©” : ೪.
CCAFS _gReseaich Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Fodd Secu
೦೦೯ 4 Crop Cutting Experiments» 1 ಸ
cGM {° ChiefGeneral Manager 1 ತ 1
057 |... ೦78೫ Goods and Services Tax. ok
CHAMAN Coordinated Horticulturesand/Management using geoiNformalies | ನ
CPGRAMS Centfalized Public Grievance Redressal and Monitoring System |
CSO “4 Central Stifistical Organisation.” : et
cv Coefficient of Variation. ಕ ಜತ
DAC&FW "0೦೧೩/7071 of Agriculture, ಡಸ and Farmefs Welfare 4
DBT birect 86768! Transfer ore 1,
De =” District Collector ..! UF ey
DCCBs DistriehGentral Cooperative Banks ಈ
DES Directorate of Economics & Staiatcs
DGRC District Level Grievance-Redressal Committee
DILRMP _ Digital India Land Record Modernisation Program
DLC District Level Joint Committee
DLMC District Level Monitoring Committee
DM Deviation Matrix .
DM* District Magistrate
DSSAT Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer .
E&MIs Evaluation & Management Information System
ES! Expected Sum Insured
Evi Enhanced Vegetation Index
EV-NCIP Enhanced Version of National Crop Insurance Portal
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 93 ---
ಹಾಡಿ — | ~
FASAL Forecasting Agricultural Output Using Space, AgroMeterology and Land Based
Observations
ತ Fis Financial Institutions
FY Financial Year
ಆ GCA Gross Cropped Area
GCES General Crop Estimation Survey
GFR General Financial Rule
GICRe General Insurance Corporation of India
Gol Government of India
GP Gram Panchayat |
GRAMS Grievance Redressal ai $c System
GRC Grievance Redressal Commitlee,
GRO Grievané pce cee t EG ಲ್ಲಾ
Gwol sfotndWoter Drought index) © >| | ಇ
HQ Headqdarter | | ಸ
1A Implementing Agency $ |
IARI 2 Indiah/Agriculture Research Institute | >,
IASRI ¢ Indian Agricultural Stata Research Institute eh |
Ic Insurance Company ಟು Oh, she i
: ICAR |) India Council ot Agricultural Research 3
ID Ident ag .
a IFD InternalFinance Divi ahh dis ಕೆ
IFPRI |) Internatignal Food Rol ie ಕ
IFSC \\ “Indian Financial SystémGode ©
IMD \ Indian Meteorological Department (ಇಳ &£
೩೬೬ “NInsurance Reghlatory and Bevelapmept Authority of India "4
ISRO Indian Space Research Organisation ರ್ಮ
Iss Interest Subvention Scheme ಟ್ಛ ote ಡೆ
Kec Kisan Credit Cards. ಹ್‌
KVK Krishi Vigyan Kendra SNS
LAI Leaf Area Index
; (0 Loss Cost
LDM Lead District Manager
. Liss Linear Imaging Self Scanning Sensor
LPA Long Period Average
4 LPC Land Possession Certificate |
Lu Land Use 8
MAI Moisture Adequacy Index H
1/15 Management Information System ‘
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 94 ---
Qe
MNCFC Mahalanobis National Crop Forecast Centre
MoA&FW Ministry of Agriculture& Farmers Welfare .
MODIS. Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer
110೫೯೩೦೦ Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change
MOSDAC Meteorological and Oceanographic Satellite Data Archival Centre .
MoU Memorandum of Understanding
MsP Minimum Support Price
NABARD National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
NADAMS __ National Agricultural Drought Assessment and Monitoring System
NCIP National Crop Insurance Portal , | |,
NDVI Normalized Difference Vegetation ೫
NDWI Normalized aiference Water Index
NER North Eastem’Region | ಹ
NIA National Insurance Academy | 11 ಲ್‌
NLMC National Level Monitoring Committee oy
NOACPC | hemes Oceanic and 130110 Administration Climate Prediction. Centre
| NRSC {National Remote Sensing Gentfe, ISRO —_—
NsSO 4 National Sample Survey;Qrga walion : :
| OG {|  Opefational Guidelines ಶ್ಯ ರ " g ig
; . OTP One'fime Password ಯಾ A 4 t. FS
PACS Primary AgfiGultural Credit Society 1 hy : *
PASM Plant Available Soil Moistiife, ಹ್ಯೆ Ee aa
PFMS \ _ Public Finance Maflagement System. ಕ | :
PMU“) _ Project Management Unitim, ನ. & bi | fe
೧೧೧. Public-Private Partnership 1 > fe ಟು
7೧1... Panchayati Raj Institution. | fae fe
೧೩೦... Ypescarena Development | fF
RF ಗ ಗ ee ಇ
RMSE RoatMean SquareEror A gy
RRBs Regional RuraBanks ಭ್ದ ಹ್‌
RSI Reservoir Storage Index ae
RST Remote Sensing Technology
RWBCIS. Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme .
SAC Space Applications Centre, ISRO ಇ
SAO Seasonal Agricultural Operations .
SAR Synthetic Aperture Data
SAU State Agricultural University .
sc Scheduled Caste
SCBs Scheduled Commercial Banks
SFDI Stream Flow Drought Index
SGST State Goods and Services Tax
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 95 ---
| ee ; .
5। Sum Insured
: SLA Service Level Agreement
SLBC State Level Bankers Committee
SLCC State Level Coordination Committee
. SLCCCI State Level Coordination Committee on Crop Insurance
SMS Short Message Service
SOF Scale of Finance
SOP Standard Operating Procedure
SPI Standardized Precipitation Index
SRSAC State Remote Sensing Application Centre
SST Smart Sampling Technique 4
57 Scheduled Tribe 11.
STAG State LeVel Technical Advisory Committee
STSU Sta * ಪ್‌ ಟ್‌ ಕ
TA ೬.೬... 4೨4 -
TAC echnical Advisory Committee ‘a
Tcl Temperature Condition Index
TSU Technical Support Unit a 1
TY Threshold Yield SS 4
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle 4 441 th
: UIDAI |) __ Unique Identification Authority 6f india ಗ ಬ
ut [| _ Union ergy ಕೆ ve : 2
VLE "Village LevetEntreprentcurl) & 6. 1 (a
7 1೦ “World Meteorological O ಸ 4ೆ ಬಟ. ಛ್ದ್ಷೆ
we GER ಹ ts ಚ vf
es | ಆ ಛ್‌
ತಟ 0೧  ..
||
|
www. pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 96 ---
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) was launched from Kharif 2016
with aim to support production in agriculture by providing an affordable crop -
insurance product to ensure comprehensive risk cover for crops of farmers against
all non-preventable natural risks from pre-sowing to post-harvest stage. The
Scheme has completed 8 crop seasons and is being implemented across ಸ್ತ
States/Union Territories (UTS).
After the commencement of the Scheme, The Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers
Welfare (MoA&FW), Government of India (Gol) has endeavoured to make the
Scheme more effective, transparent and auto-administration driven with the
intention to minimize manual interventions and eliminate usage of variable
methodologies for ಚಾ ೦೦ fait execution on the ground. This was
facilitated bya detailed’ set of Operational Guideli Gs) and by leveraging
efficientaideutting-edge technological solutions.
Baged gn the past 0 implementing heme (between
ಛೆ study reports of various research institutions and feedback received
from stakeholders, the jeme was reviewed and the revised OGsiwere brought

ಸೆ into 51001 from 01" ೦೦8018 addressing major challenges. However, few

a cele remained, especially long term tendering, optional coverage to all

{ farmers, increase in théiscope ೦1 risk cover and the additio [೦ add-on, covers.
{ Thege issues were seid to be addressed in order to increase the .

acceptability and effica f ihe Scheme as wellkas meefithe. aspirations of

i stakéholdersas pe ಬ ಡ್‌ 2 wis@agrarian condition:

2 The MoA& ಕ! insti a stakeholder const a tyState Gover ts,
|) Researcitand Techical Organizations and the\Central Be emment Ministries and
ಸ್ರ... Departments to identify,the key lenges anid inalize possible solutionsiremedial

, measuresto adress seh he ye. Based on the gutcome of the consultations
ಸ್ರ 3೧6 discussions, the requited rections/changes Were approved by the Union
“)\Cabinet for incorporation inthe OGs of PMFBY/Restruct red Weather Based Crop
‘Insurance Scheme (RWBICS). Accordingly, the OGs have been updated for
reference andadoption by’allistakeholders for effective implementation of the
At Objective ofthe Scheme | ಆಡ್‌
PMEBY aims at supporting Sustainable production in agriculture sector by way of:
+ Providing financial support to farmers suffering crop loss/damage arising out of
; unforeseen events.
+ Stabilizing the income of farmers to ensure their continuance in farming.
+ Encouraging farmers to adopt innovative and modern agricultural practices. *
+ Ensuring credit worthiness of the farmers, crop diversification and enhancing
growth and competitiveness of agriculture sector besides protecting the
farmers from production risks. ತ
www.pmfby.gov.in 9
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 97 ---
as Ra
2 Adoption of Technology for Scheme Administration:
24 | an endeavour to integrate Technology in implementation and execution of the
Scheme, Govemment of India has designed and developed a National Crop
. Insurance Portal (NCIP) (www.pmfby.gov.in) which has been in use since Kharif
2018, This has brought in better administration and coordination amongst
stakeholders viz. Farmers, States, Insurers and Banks as well as ensured real
ಬ time dissemination of information and transparency in implementation.

2.2 Continued running of the Portal successfully calls for responsible participation by
different stakeholders who will have the responsibility for census coding and
Fegular updation of revenue/administrative units, AWS code mapping and requisite
information/details as per the login credential module.

2.3 Implementing States ang ICs during 886 crop season are required to digitize and
upload basic information like: n ined 5, crops, sum insured, Government
subsidy, andipremium 10/06 paid by farmers and namesofthe implementing IC in the
particu rance unitete. on the portal well within'the p fescribed timeline. This
will facilitate farmers arid 1೧೮೯ stakeholders to get thé,relévant information on
Internet ind through SMS for the 61 season.‘State’Government and
concemed IC will be responsible 1 incorrect entryerrorshomissions etc

“during@igitization, |" v4 ಸ ಸ್ಸ
2.4 Digitization of basic information/notifigation should compulsorily be done before
* floating tender documents which will be followed by the entry of L1 Premium rates
7 and fame of the selected Insurance Comipany immediately after finalization of bids
;  _ andissuance of work orders) = me ಸ
2.5 | Since the NGIPi has ಆ 1 aula administration and seamless
i b flow ofdatalinfom iation/reports on rez ಆ basis; theState’ Government would
|| Not bedalibived'itp creale/use a. se| Poglal/website¥for Crop Insurance
F purposes: 1( "Presently, the States\of Gujarat « 1೪. ೫ 45 ning
their portals; They Will haye to migrate to NGIP, 5s per thetimelines agi tween
ಕ್ಕ Gotland thetespective\states. ಸ ay 1121107 toNCIPis completed, Gujarat
|), 9nd Kamatake have to ensure regulartransférotdata tSNCIP). q
2.6 \Alll Stakeholders have defined roles and esponsibililies and accessibility to related
“modules. on the Portal for the ‘adm tration of the Scheme.sDetails of the
ionalization of modules (gr each stakeholders available on the Portal.
27 Securéd gredential/iogin, preferably linked with Aadhaar Nufiber and mobile One
Time Password (OTP) based, fapall Stal (51101165 viz, Géntral Government, State
Governments; Banks, empanelle@ ICs and theie desiGnated field functionaries will
be provided on the’Portal to enable them to¢nitet/upload/download the requisite
2.8 The ICs shall not distribute/collecV/allow any other proforma/utilityweb Portal etc,
for collecting details of insured farmers separately. However they may provide all
ತ requisite support to facilitate Bank Branches/Primary Agriculture Credit Societies
(PACS) /Common Service Centres (CSCs)/Banking Correspondents (BCs) for
uploading the farmers details on the Portal well within the prescribed cut-offdates.
29 Only those farmers whose data is uploaded on the NCIP and their share of
Premium has been remitted to the concerned IC within the prescribed time limit,
Shall be eligible for Insurance coverage. The premium subsidy from Stale and |
Central Government will be released accordingly. a
www.pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಎ

--- Page 98 ---
01
2.10 All data pertaining to crop-wise, Insurance Unit (IU) wise historical yield data,
Notional value of average yield/Scale of Finance (SOF), Sown Area, Coverage
and Claims data, Threshold Yield (TY) and Actual Yield (AY) shall be made
available by the State Government on the NCIP for the purpose of premium rating
and claim calculation, etc. For the calculation of admissible claims for RWBCIS, .
requisite information like weather data, detailed term sheet with triggers and exit
values and notional sum insured, etc. will be provided on NCIP by the concerned
State Government. .
2.11 The Banks/Financial Institutions (Fls)other intermediaries need to compulsorily
transfer the individual farmer's data electronically to the NCIP. Accordingly,
banks/Fls may endeavour to undertake Core Banking System (CBS)
integration ina time bound manner for real-time transfer of information/data.
2.12 |! 15 also proposed to develop.an integrated platform/portal for both PMFBY and
Interest Subvention Schemie (ISS). The data/information of both the Schemes shall
be auto-synchronized 10 enable realtime sharing of information and better
2.13 Thed@s sfiall compulsorily u techinology/mobile a for monitoring of
ನ ಟುಪಿ Cutting: iments (CCEs)/reporting; of losses; crop
Surveyetc. in coordination:with the concemed States. States 5! also facilitate
insurahce Companies with Satellite Imagery wherever req\ 6 and also facilitate
. "ಕೆ 5206 of Drones by way ೧೧11೦೧ pproval of agency from which such'data can be
& sourced. ICs can also use the Services of the Govemment/en ಗಗ
ಕೈ 900009 for conducting, relevant studiesivalidation. This is;fequired\for better
monitoring and ground-truthir ೧.105 can be active partners 17: 1801121176 178 use
= oftechnology. es ಜೆ. 5 -
244 |... The Departmentof the StateGoyer jet responsible for mana ging the digital land
)— recordiwebsite will 13010210 14 integration of tandfecord ar provide Application ಸ
ತ್‌ ming Interface (ABI}for st poh geass oP ian ecords of the concerned
farmer or Validation on NCIP ne ಕ
245 ಕ.30/016 technologyimetfidology sha Ig beSexplored 2೧೮ adopted for direct
01790073 “Of yield. aleGram Ranchaya -{GP) level{zadoption of 2 step Yield
. Estimation methodologysOptimization of CCEs and:s art Sampling sTechnique
(SST) for condict of CEs! ¥
216 States shall adopt techholody, such as satellite imagery, drones, Unmanned
Aetigl Vebicle (UAV) andremot seusing for various applications'such as crop area
estimation-and yield disputes andialso promote the use of,femote sensing and
other related technol ogy for Ct E=planning, yield estiration, loss assessment,
assessmentot prevented sowinggad clustering of Sisko.
2.17 Use of technology derived solutions for calctilation of Yield will be triggered in the
following instances when: ~ ಗ
ಸ 2.7.1 Requisite number of CCEs have not been conducted at the Insurance Unit (IU) :
level or one level higher than the IU level.
or
2AT2 The yield data submitted by the Nodal Department of the State Government is
disputed by the IC due to non-compliance of the defined procedure for conducting
CCEs.
: or
www. pmfby.gav.in, ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 99 ---
ಇರ
2.173 The Nodal Department of State Government is unable to submit Actual or
approved yield data (CCE Agri App based) for at-least 90% of total Crap Cutting
Experiments (CCEs) conducted, within 2 months of the cut-off date of completion
of CCEs.
3. Coverage of Farmers:

. 34 All farmers including sharecroppers and tenant farmers growing the notified crops
in the notified areas are eligible for coverage. However, farmers should have
insurable interest for the insured crops and lands. Such farmers are required to
submit necessary decumentary evidence of land records prevailing in the State
(Records of Right (RoR), Land Possession Certificate (LPC) etc.) andlor applicable
contract/ agreement details/ other documents notified/ permitted by concerned
State Government in case’of Sharectoppers/tenant farmers and the same should
be defined by the respective States in the Notification itself. Such farmers are also
required entially Submit Aadhaar Number andideclaration about the crop
sown) lendedtobesown. >

Va 1||1|॥ ಸ
: ಕ| | ಸ್ರ
344 Farmergavailing the Kisan Credit Card (KCC)/Crop ಶಾ ಕಾಂ Farmers:
3.4.1.4 (. schemes optional for all farmers including farmers who have beén sanctioned
@ shortiterm Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO) loans/Kisan Credit Card (೧೧)
for the notified crops from defined Fis (hereinafter referred to ais Loanee farmers).
ತ Existing Loanee ra a want to get covered under the scheme have
{the option of opting-out fron ten by submitting requisite declaration to
. F | foan Sanctioningbank branc! ly time.during thiéyear butlat least seven days
| _ priorfo the ctf date for ehrolniént of farmers fo ‘heh spective season. All those
ಷ ಆ... thedetlaration would beessentiallycovered. |
3.1.1. (೫71೦102 Cc oi ie subesta dardias defined ar id as per
¥ “prevailing\practices of the concerted Banks/Government regulator shall not be
4. considered as a Loanee farmer Hov feverfBank branches may facilitate such
Vy farmers for efrolmenta ‘iy loanee farmers
3.1.1.3“) Merely, sanctioning of crop bon Boaigh other collateral securities inicluding fixed
“deposits, gold/jewel loans, mortgage loans etc. without” haying insurable
interest of thesfarmer on thelinstirable land and notified crops shall not be
ಯ ಜ್‌ ಜಿ undertl sScheme. 6
As mentioned in Parai3:4.1.1 labove,-thé%Scheme is optional for all farmers
including non-loanee farmers/other farmers.
3.4.24 The insurance coverage will strictly be equivalent to the sum insured/hectare, as
defined in the Government notification or /and on NCIP multiplied by proposed
| sown area for notified crop forenrolment.
3.4.3 Special efforts shall be made to ensure maximum coverage of Scheduled Caste
. (SC) Scheduled Tribe (57)/ Women farmers under the Scheme. Further
Panchayat Raj Institutions (೧115) may be involved in the extension activities and
awareness Creation among farmers and obtaining feedback from farmers about the
implementation of the Scheme. 4 |
www.pmiby.gov.in ೨ |
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY |

--- Page 100 ---
0॥

3.4.4 The implementing IC selected as L1 will be responsible for taking necessary
measures to ensure at least 10% incremental increase in coverage of non-loanee
farmers in the district. However, other empanelled ICs which have participated in
the bidding and are keen for enrolment of non loanee farmers in the cluster may
also be allowed to enrol non-loanee farmers at L1 premium rate. The interested =~
companies have to inform their willingness in writing within 7 days of the
finalisation of tender/issuance of work order to L1. It will however be the
responsibility of all the ICs engaged in this process to ensure that duplicate *
enrotment does not happen in the given cluster/district. Engaging companies other
than 1.1 for enrolling non-loanee farmers will be taken up ೦7 pilot basis in Districts
notified/allowed by the State Government, They shall enrol the nontoanee
farmers as per the conditions laid down in Para 17.6.

3.1.5 These ICs will maintain a separate database of such non-loanee farmers covered

by them and enter the Said data on’ the portal as per the seasonality discipline
detailed in 16.4. They shall be liable for the pay! of claims to such farmers.
3.1.6 The of inforrjation and co-witnessing of CGEs for the district by the
Govern uNCIP wag is Company only anditwill Be binding on other
1p toacceptit. TheN' jal Department of State Governmentshall share the
fn for the computation of claims with all concerned {Gs in the relevant |Us
ತೆ wherg they have done business for coverage of non-loanee farmers. Requisition
4” for payment of Government subsidy in respect of non-loanee farmers enrolled by
{other ICs will be submitted directly to the Government desig rated agency. Claim
| calculation can be ದ one on NCIP based on the relevant crop-wise,
© WU-wige AY and.TY dat ather data, threshold,yalues andjinsured-afea data ~
1... 06/5031 fe ಇರ ಗ ತ
4 § Coverage of Gr “av ae 3111. & ಸ
[ಟುಟ / / |
“AI, ೩/70021ಲ್ದ77701ರ/ಕ್ಹಿ೧೧/1311 ಆ ಬ iS
“IV, In 8061 lion, pilots fomcovefage can be taken for thdse perennial
“ac hggictitural/commerciall trops)for which standard’ methodology for yield
“estimationisavailable. (4. 4

5. CoveragéofRisks and Exclusions: ag

5.1 Basic Cover: The 0380000901 105.170 5018770 covers the risk of loss of yield to
standing crop (sowing to harvesting).This comprehensive risk insurance is

. provided to cover yield losses on an area based approach basis due to
non-preventable risks like drought, dry spells, flood, inundation, wide spread pest
and disease attack, landslides, natural fire due to lightening, storm, hailstorm, — +
and cyclone.

5.2 Add-On Coverage: Apart from the mandatory basic cover, the State -
Governments/UTs, in consultation with the State Level Coordination Committee
on Crop Insurance (SLCCC1) may choose any or all of the following add-on covers
based on the need of the specific crop/area in their State to cover the following
stages of the crop andrisks leading to crop loss. 2

www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 101 ---
ದಾ
5.2.1 Prevented Sowing/Planting/Germination Risk: Insured area is prevented from
Sowing/plantingigermination due to deficit rainfall or adverse seasonaliclimatic
conditions,

. 5.2.2 Mid-Season Adversity: Loss in case of adverse seasonal conditions during the
‘crop season viz. floods, prolonged dry spells and severe drought 610., wherein
expected yield during the season is likely to be less than 50% of the normal yield.

೩ This add-on coverage facilitates the provision for immediate relief to insured
farmers in case of occurrence of such risks.

5.2.3 Post-Harvest Losses: Coverage is available only up to a maximum period of two
weeks from harvesting, for those crops which are required to be dried in cut and
Spread / small bundled condition depending on requirement of the crops in that
area, in the field after harvesting against specific perils of hailstorm, cyclone,
cyclonicrains andunseasonalrains. . - |
5.2.4 Localized Calamities: Loss/damage to notified ingu edycrops resulting from
occuirenge’of identified localized risks of hailstorm, latidslidé inundation, cloud
buFst and natural fire due to lightening affecting isolated fal iis in thie notified area.
5.2.5 Add-on coverage for crop loss due to attack by wild animals: The States may
a oa Providing add-on coverage 1070100 loss due to the altack by Wild animals
sy wherever the risk is perceived to be substantial and is identifiable. The detailed
{f  Protetol and procedure for evaluation of the bids has been prépared by the Gol in
consultation with the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate “Change
. (MOEF&CC) afd Genetal Insurance Corporationg@ipindia (GIC Re). The add-on
covefage will beptional forthe farmets and apleab noti6nal premium will be
> bomeby the farmer, however the Stale, Go erainents mal “consider providing
additional subsidy, on this coverage, wherever, 11011166. The actuarial premium
fates foladd-on coVerage should be sought in thé bid itsel inthe IC, however the
A add-on aetuarial pretium rate will be consideréd 1 ‘and shail notform part
AV of evaluationiof L1. Detailed modalities aré4nnexed as) nexure -I for adoption
5.3 ‘Slates have to notify 9 specific period/duration for coverage of aforesaid
ಈಗ risks in their notification as detailed 17 Para 7.2 of this g (1001176 and the
5111/11 also be uploaded on NCIP! REE 0S 4 we
5.4 General Exe lusions: Losses ‘arising out of war al \dsclear risks, malicious
damage and other preventable risks shall be excluded”
5.5 Loss/damage for 100211968703/371884 and post-harvest losses will be
assessed at the level of the individual insured farm and hence lodging of loss
* intimation by the farmer/designated agencies is essential. For remaining
20584, losses are due to widespread calamities, hence lodging of intimation
. for claims by insured farmers / designated agencies for such wide-spread
calamities is not essential. Claims will be calculated based on the loss
assessment report submitted by the District Level Joint Committee (DLJC) i
| and/or average yield submitted by concerned State Government. [
5.6 Delails of indemnification and claims calculation for aforesaid add-on cover are
provided in Para 21.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 102 ---
[67
6 Preconditions for implementation of the Scheme:
6.1 States:
Issuance of Notification by the State Governments / UTs for the implementation of .
the Scheme will imply their acceptance of all the provisions, modalities and OGs of
the Scheme. The main conditions relating to the scheme which are binding on
States/UTs are 25 follows: =
6.4.1 Digitization of 1U-wise administrative/revenue hierarchy along with Scheme: crops:
level of IUs notified, crop-wise sum insured, crop-wise indemnity level, crop-wise
Threshold Yield (TY) at Insurance Unit (IU) level for notified crops, opted risk
coverage, details of Automatic Weather Stations (AWS), Automatic Rain Gauges
(ARG) of the IMD/State GovernmentPrivate Providers which have been stationed
as per the standards defined by a 1618 Meteorological Department (IMDWorld
Meteorological Organisation w jO) and afe cerlified by the IMD and integration of
digitized jafid)fecords with NCIP. | iy 3 GE.
6.1.2 Adoption éFinnovative t obec} specially smart phon@s/ Hand-held devices for
dpturingthe conduct 91 ೦೧೯೨101 hCCE-Agri Appiand ‘the use of NCIP
gplationfito enable flow of inf 1181೧7 970 auto ರಾ the: err
ಆಲ additional provision ofa 5 septate budget allocation of Mot the total
E° budget of the Scheme for adiministtative expenses from [17270121 7/02: (FY)
{202021 formeeting the day 0 day expensé for monitoring, Information Education
~~ & Communication (IEC) andes oS and other administrative work
(|... 19/6 to the implementation of the ಈ ne suchas recruitment and deployment ಈ
| oor ginfrastru ಜಸ್‌” b eS
6.1.4 |) Condilet requisite numbe ‘atthe |ével of fotified IUjarea and approve the =”
61.5 || CCE-baséd yield estimation dais has.t6 bel Up oadedion the NCIP {9 enable
__ ato-calculation of 0 dias: Inca é the Nodaf Department does not provide/upload
| actial yield data within ಜಂ ofthe nine’ CCE gompletion date, technology
derived solutions will be'Qged fer thefeomputatiog” of Synthetic Yield data for
claim settlemen' ce ಆಟ (ಟ್ರ,
ee Be
6.1.6 late/ UT will makeinecessaryibi dgetary provision for premium bsidy based on
fair estimates, atthe: beginnil | of the crop. season to ens re timely premium
paymenttto ICs enabling fas ter pect ement.: he pof-payment of the State ~
Share of prémium subsidy wile the pres bed.timelines as defined in the
seasonality discipline.wil ead te ಜ್‌ ‘of the State Government to
implement the scheme insthesnext 568500. The cut-off date for invoking this
provision for Kharif and Rabi seasons will be 31*March for succeeding years and
30” September for that year, respectively. %
.
| 6.1.7 To carry out pilot studies for improved yield estimations using technology.Adoption ,
of protocol/Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for smart sampling technique,
optimization of CCEs, 2 Step Yield Estimation method and direct yield estimation
procedure as issued and modified by the Gol from time to time. *
6.1.8 The present composition of the State level Coordination Committee on Crop
Insurance (SLCCC)) includes the representation of concemed Departments of the
ನ State Government, Reserve Bank of India (RBI), National Bank for: Agriculture and
__'wivwepinfby.gow.in ರಾರಾ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 103 ---
eal
Rural Development (NABARD), empanelled Cs and the State-Level Bankers
Committee (SLBCs) which may be strengthened by including representatives from
the State Horticulture Department, State Remote Sensing Application Centre
(SRSAC), IMD Experts from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICARY/State
Agriculture Universities (SAU) and Farmers’ Representatives including women
| farmers for implementing PMFBY. Chairman of the State Level Coordination
Committee on Crop Insurance (51೮0೦1) may co-opt representatives from other
ಇ departments/agencies, if considered necessary.
6.1.9 Adequate preparedness for ensuring availability of all crop loss and yield data on
National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) as computation of claims including those
related to add-on cover will be done mandatorily on the basis of data uploaded
onNCIP.
6.2 Insurance Companies 2 1 118
Empanelment of ICs and their participation for the implementation of the Scheme
will implyéthieir acceptance of all provisions, modalifiéS,and guidelines of the
Schemes.gihe empanelied ICs have to deploy requisite, infrastructure and
resdurces for the Lhd ಸ ತ ಜ್ರ | IFBY particularly for the following identified
6.2.1 {To caffy out Pilot studies for levera iho new technology for the effective
_ implementation of Schemeina transparent.
6.2.2 {Deployment of requisiteinfrastructure towWiden the outreach’ the Scheme and
~ enabling access to related services t rural farmers at their d with a
| ed ommitment fomat least 10% incremental, increase.in Non-loanee ge for
ಬ 6.2.3 | _Deployinent of sufficient manpower to ೧೧, 00560/8 ೧೮೨ and allied activities and
“1 compuilgoryuse oft ಸ್‌ ಗ೨0೧. | 4
6.2.4 |) AllocationofrequisitéreSources for IEC. aéli inca ‘awareness generation
), and capacily building ofistakeholders aboutsthe Schemes The detailed planning for
‘A, the same sfiould be submutte ಜಿ ಗ Stats Government in advance i.e.
before the start ia, bed in these OGs.
62.5 “Greaton oa gievance redtssalrfechanism atte ground leél covering the
Ub;district, District, State and Natiofial level, puttingin place aropUst and effective
mettfiod for grievance registrati 4 ಜಟ sposal and reporting etc
asreferiedinPara30oftheseOGss .... ೬ 0
6.2.6 Settlement of 10 the eligible farmers under the Basic Product and all insured
add-on covers ethe_preseribed timelines as defined in the seasonality
discipline. Sei tara
6.2.7 Timely payment of service charge to Banks (4% of farmer’s premium) and requisite
commission to Common Service Centre - Special Purpose Wehicle (CSC-SPV).
7 63 Banks and other enrolment channels:
ಜ್ಞ Participation in implementation of the Scheme (PMFBY) will imply their acceptance
of all provisions, modalities and the OGs of the Scheme. The participating Banks,
other channels like CSC, Insurance Intermediaries and 105 have to deploy
requisite infrastructure and resources for implementation of PMFBY particularly for
| following identified major activities:
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಈ |

--- Page 104 ---
\ore

6.3.4 Creation of digital credentials for each user and compulsory digital data entry of
farmers’ details on NCIP as per the prescribed enrolment module within the
stipulated timelines as defined in the Seasonality discipline.

6.3.2 Digitization of correct and updated information of the insured farmers on NCIP after ಕ
due validation with the records available with the bank/farmers including validated
insured area, name ೦1105, Crops and Bank Account details etc.

6.3.3 Uploading copies of the requisite documents by all channels except for the
enrolments done through banks.

6.3.4 Timely remittance of farmer's premium through payment gateway linked with NCIP
striclly as per timelines to implementing ICs.

6.4 Submission of UID (AADHAAR) ewes

6.4.1 Aadhaar has;been made mandatory for.availing Crop insurance from Kharif
2017 season onwards. Therefore, all enrolment.agencies are advised to
mandatorilyobtain Aadhaar Number of theit farmers.“ ಸ್ಸ

6.4.2 Farmers not having wach Identity (ID) may also enrol Under PMFBY subject to
their enrolment for Aadhaar and, submission of proof of such ente|ment as per

tification No. 334.dated 8th February, 2017 issued by the Gal under Section 7 of
© nadhaar Act 2016 (Targetéd Delivery of Financial and othersSubsidiés, Benefits
& and Services). Copy of the notification may be perused on wau.pmfby-gov.in. This
maybe subjectto furtherdirections issued by the Government from time totime.
6.4.3 [~All ಲ agencies have to compulsorily take AadhaarfAadhaar enrolment — -
| number as pefithe notification under the Aadhaar:A¢t before th sanction of crop
© JoanIKCC undetthe ISSi Hence the coverage of ೦ farjers without Aadhaar |
2. does ‘Ro arise and such accounts need to be reviewed bythe concerned bank ಹ
6.5 _ AgreeméntiMemotandum of Understanding (MOU)ibetween States and
6.5.1 YA. States and [Gs wil enterinto an agreemesit before the commencement ofthe fist
crop season as per the ‘model agreement available on NCIP. The roles and
Ssesponsibilties'of the States, (Para 39-2) and ICs/(Para 35.4) and provision of
Berio mance evaluation matrizand applicable penalties (Section 33) will bea part
ofthe Ag oe ಡಟತಂಯುಗ್ಳ ಷ್ಟ 5 ಗು ಸಸ್ಯದ
7 Tendeting and Notification Es ತ
7A Procedure forlssuance of Tender by the States/UTs:
TAA Revamped PMFBY provides for compulsory tender by the States/UTs for period of
3 years to ensure assured business to ICs for a longer duration leading to
igcreased commitment towards infrastructure and manpower deployment.
TAZ Detailed Model Tender Document has been provided to the States/UTs for its *
adoption by Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare
(DAC&FW) vide letter No. 13015/03/2018 - Credit -Il, dated 8" April 2020. Copy of
the sameis available on the NCIP. 7
7.1.3. Meeting of the SLCCCI should be convened prior to the commencement of the first
crop season and well in advance for finalising the various terms and conditions and
calling of bids/issuance of the bid notice to all empanelled ICs for selection to
www.pmiby.gov.in. ಈ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 105 ---
{os :
implement the Scheme during the risk period, States / UTs should ensure the
issuance of the notification and its circulation to all concerned agencies/
departments/ institutions at least one month prior to the commencement of the crop
season incorporating all the essential details about insured crops, areas, Sum
Insured, TY at IU level for notified crops, opted risk cover, period of contract,

ಷ್ಣ bidder's evaluation and selection methodology, premium rate for farmers,
Government subsidy along with seasonality discipline/ cut-off dates for each
ಆ activity etc. Notification should be issued for at least one year to facilitate
banks for deduction of premium for a year and timely data entry on NCIP.
However, award of Tender to ICs will be for 3 years compulsorily.
7.4.4 In order to have transparency, all the details mentioned in the Model Tender
Document (refer Para 7.1.2) should mandatorily, be made a part of the tendering
process. No modification in the terms and conditions enumerated in the tender
document shallbe allowSd post tendering. |
RES EE ,
7.1.5 Annexuresforbbid ಕಂಡ! be generated throigh the Portal including
Crop-wise AU location mas ter. ‘The procedure and témplate for the same are
availablefon NCIP. Before floating the Tender, last 10.) ಇ data at the
udtified/available level and TY a i 8 ‘unit along witieathe? formation Idata
should Be uploaded on the Portal in the prescribed template and should be made a
& part of the Tender Document. The prescribed list of data required to Be published
) alongwith the tender is detailed below to enable proper risk analysis and correct
(Y  prerhilum rating. , By) ® ಕ
7.1.5.1 Details about the notified scheme, notified crops, level of notified IUs, crop-wise
7 _Sumipsured, erSp-wise indemnity level, crop-wise 77211135 level for notified crops,
ಕ ೩ ಡಾ ails of Automa er Stations, Automatic Rain Gauges or IMD/State
© Governmenit/prival eo have been{installed as/per the
standards definied by | andare certified by IMD.
a 8. Year vige historical pete tld ihre ಬುಜ : ‘i Wu
ಸ. level forpast 10 years\ ing immediately preceding seasor ಗ.
G. Year wise, Crop-wise, 1D, level historical Coverage and Claim data for past 3
©, years (including immediately preceding season/year). ವೆ
D. “Histof clusterwise districts. eS
E ಊರಿತ್ತು 114 ಬಾ ai ಇಡೆ್‌ along with the
conversion ರ್‌ i two nomenclatures (i applicable).
F. List of district-crops covered under different risk combinations along with
applicable TY and normal sowing and harvesting dates.
ಇ
G. Classification of irrigated and unirrigated districts in clusters as per irrigation
ಈ facilities available. If the States have not categorized irrigated/un-irrigated
district, Gol liability will be limited as per data available/published by
ಬ Directorate of Economics & Statistics (DES), DAC&FW and further revised
from time to time.
H. Stratified input cost for the indemnification of losses at different age/stage of
crops due to the localized calamities.
. |
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೦ |
|

--- Page 106 ---
01
ex

7.1.6 Calculation of the lowest weighted premium of district shall be based on the
insured area for notified crops in each district during last year/season.
However, in the absence of insured area details of last year/season for all proposed
crops or any crop, immediately preceding year's available insured area will be
considered for calculation of the weighted premium of the district. Only this data will
be used for calculation of L1. For new notified crops, 30% of the average ofthe last *
3 years net sown area, in case of major crops and 10% of the average of the last 3
years net sown area, in case of minor crops will be considered as weights 10717೮.
calculation of lowest weighted premium of the district.

7.1.6.1 Bidding shall be done through e-tendering and work order may be released
within 2 weeks of the opening of the Tender,

71.6.2 Depending on the risk profile, historical loss cost and cost benefit analysis for the
proposed crop(s) in district(s) of any cluster, if the State Government feels that the
premium rate likely to béloffered by the bidding ICs would be abnormally high, then
the State Goyemment can fix a ceiling on premium rates for such crop(s) proposed
100601 the bidding evaluation for the 010ರ176 01. However, recourse to.
this ceili 15107 may be done only in Well justified @asegjand not as a general
ಆ ಟಬ ಬ ceiling premium rate;may be derived. baged on statistical
‘eValuatiofv/actuarial premium analysis, loss cost, historicafpayouits etc. and name

| ದ್ಯ should be disclosed by the State Governmeht compulsorily in the
f- jocument. ಣಿ 1"
7.1.6.3 ..' In of cases where a ceiling on premium rate has been lated the State
{Government must call financial bids in a two-step bidding Or in two separate
e envélopes. The first bid/enyelope is for disclosing the premium rate offered by
@ eachiparticipating 105 for such ceiling crops and, must ೧ಣ ‘ategorised under ಚ
© “Ceiling Premitim ೧2216” 2೧೮ 2™ bid envelop is forbidding of Grop wise premium a
ie tate for all other crops included ‘in’ tender. Time interval for opening 0! both
©. bid/enyelope should be; compulsorily mentionedjin the bidding documents and ಕ
Yee shouldiprefe a on the:same:day<All participating {Csipave to submit the bid
| offerfo ‘both categories of crops as perthe procedure ar ned above. |
7A7 |“ Thé’state\Goveriment shall first evaluate tHe 1/51 envelope of the bid Keeping in
View the premium offeted’ by’ each’ individual participating IC and#if the risk
“\ propensity arid weather susceptibility ofthe crop and/or historical cl [71/1055 data
adoesn't suppor ಅ actuarial tates offered by the participating IC, su op(s) may
be dropped from the list of proposed érops ‘for notification by the State Government
anid evaluation for {1 bidder shouldbe done siriétly based'on thérates offered for
remaining crops. The second envelope shall be opened by the State Government
only affég.the decision on dropaipg? ಅ proposed accepting the premium
rates offered by the participatingiiGs has been taken bythe State Government. If
State Government decides not tagrop all the proposed crop(s)/ few crops for which
premium rate was obtained in a Separate envélope of the "Ceiling Premium Rate”
from the bidding process, then L4-will be calculated by inclusion of the premium
offered for both categories of crops/final remaining crops.
7.1.8 | participating ICs will provide loss cost calculation on the 1101೧, for
evaluation of the premium rates within 3 days of the opening of the tender. .
7.1.9 States should avoid re-tendering as a general practice. Re-tendering may be held
only in exceptional circumstances and only with the prior approval of Gol after ~
submission of a request with detailed reasons except, in the cases where
re-tendering is necessitated due to inadequate participation of ICs as per the State
bidding evaluation norms. The Gol on its part will give its decision within 5 working
days of the receipt of the request.
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 107 ---
tos
: 7.1.10 ‘States are required to compulsorily upload meeting notices, tender documents,
addendums, corrigendum, notification of award, copy of agreement between State
Government and the IC and all other requisite and relevant data and information on
the NCIP for faster communication and response. Accordingly, the subsequent

ಇ notifications, circulars, directives shalll also be uploaded on the Portal as and when
issued for wider reach and circulation,

. 7.4.11 All conditions proposed to be stipulated by State Government should be
incorporated in the bid document itself and no new condition should be included in
the notification. In case 105 have any objection to any Tender condition which is in
conflict with the guidelines, they can make a reference to the State Govemment
with a copy to the Gol within 3 days of issuance of Tender.

7.4.12 (1 bidder will not be allowed to withdraw its bid after opening of bids/allotment of
work. IfL1 bidder ಹಳ | then financial loss, if any, to the State Government due
tore-tendering /assignment ofwark to olhers, due to inerease in actuarial premium.
rate from previously declared L1 rate, shall be recaveréih from the withdrawing
L1 bidder. || [|| ಯ

7.4.13 However, state have to igsue Work ord ಗ್ಗ 37071 of opening ofbid.

i eee Ye Bs

& ee | ಷ್ಣ ’
7.1.14. fF termination of Contract: i 11 4 1 ಛಿ
1. 011೧೯0೩// shall be ಈ. terminate this Agreement under specific situations
and conditions as mentionéd,belew afterninety (90) days of issuing a writen notice
ನ tothe other party subject tothe condi 12111 70 notice is given within ninety (90)
days’ prior to,Gommencement of,4 crop,season, thé)said crop season Would be
implemented by tt one Astratice Company: “ pee |
thority of India (IR , Goll 1. eB
. OA&FW may also examine \the!fecormendation regarding blacklisting of ೬
= ICbyctter compelltyhaehy 21111೨5 for taking appropriate decision/campliance.
= IChas failéd to maintainthe tequited solvency margin, or the solWency ratio for
the financial year as prescribed By IRDAI. ie

+ “RUC has been de-empanell ed by Moa &FW ‘for ti ie implementation of a crop
instrance scheme, as evidenced by the evaluation of performance of Insurer
condUéted by the authority palor to the Bid Due Daté.

* Failure of the Staté;Goveramentsand/or Insurer in performing one's core
responsibility as prescribed in the OGs of PMFBY & RWBCIS including but not
limited to the payment of premium share by the State Government and,
payment of claim by the Insurer within the extended timelines. ಜು

ಪ್ದ + ಡಿ material changes in the scheme parameters by the Government.
ಭ್ಯ * Termination of agreement by any party due to any other reason not listed
above will attract a penalty of up to 5% of the total premium. The total premium
in this case shall be determined by multiplying the total premium of the
corresponding preceding previous year/season with the remaining
year/seasons of the agreement period,
www.pmfby.gov.in ಜಃ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಲ
| |

--- Page 108 ---
\ ob

72 Procedure for Issuance of Notification by the States/UTs:

7.21 Notification of Crops, Areas and Implementing Agency (IA):

72.1.1 The Scheme shall operate on the principle of "Area Approach” in the selected
defined areas called IU. The States/UTs will notify crops and defined areas covered =~
during the season in accordance with the decision taken in the meeting of the
SLCCCI. The States/UTs should notify the Village/Village Panchayat or any other
equivalent unit as an |U for major crops defined at the District / Taluka or equivalent
level. For other crops, it may be a unit of size at or above the level of Village/Village
Panchayat depending on the availability of sufficient crop area for statistically
sound sampling for the conduct of CCEs, For defining a crop 85 a major crop and
deciding the IU level, the sown area of that crop should be al least 25% of the Gross
Cropped Area in a DistricVTaluka or equivalent level. And this should be
appropriately incorporated in the notification.

T2A2 The StatesifIs will notify the type of ಉಂಟ್‌
‘Add-on,@bvers during the season. For the ೮181175 aristiig Giof crop damage due to
localized rigks and post-harvest losses, assessment Gfith@\grop damage will be
made ogfan individual farm basis as ‘outlined in (Section 24, Para 21.5 and
21.6 respectively). ತ್ತಿ ಡ್‌

7.24.3 Sire SLCCCI, for the purpose of ‘notification, will consider factors such as

Fi availability of the past yield data based on CCEs for adequate umber of years (at
£ least? years for the calculation of TY), cropped acreage and capa ly wail
£ yield during proposed season, etc. 770 State Government sould endeavour to
| ತೆ the major crops grown in all the districts of the State. States shoulencure ಜ್ಯ
© that a'standardtethodology of yield estimation exists for all this crops proposed to
(09700166 (refert aim Calculation Methodology a [Section 18,19 &21),
7214 The Statesit 7 shouldprovide all information and datajas mentioned above
4. (೧೫/೩7 (.5) 17 softformat (in Excel) in English to 0101010೦೫೦ lation of
“\ TY, premium ratesietc.at ಯ detailed in Médel Tender Document
"sand: in 11513050709, ಕಂ the data 21.016 1! 1000 11117027951 ne ighbouring
“° unit/weighted, average at contiguous unitsfas decided by the 51605/1770 level
"and the namébf a notified’area of IU mustbe a part of the notification anid should be
“provided atthetime of bidding itself. 4” ets os
7.2.1.5 296 States/UTs propose to hotify rigated and un-imigated(aigfed) areas under |
ಟ್ರಾ ಸ ಇರ ಜು ಸ ಮ್‌ ್‌
condutted 10781031ಕರ 076 rai eae ops separately in Such 28535. In addition, past
yield dattfor requisite number Sears will have to be made available separately
for both. In case village is the IU. fpr better representative sampling of CCEs and to
avoid moral hazardinolification gpboth 17102190276 rainfed crops in the same 1U
shouldbe avoided, Sa REE
7.24.6 * While notifying the crop(s) where a specific conversion factor is being used for
* reporting of yield such as in the case of rice/paddy etc, due care should be taken by
the State Nodal Department to use the relevant specific nomenclature for ~
disclosure of average yield, TY and actual yield while releasing the tender
| document and submission of yield data and CCE data for the calculation of
| admissible claims. The IC will also be responsible for prior scrutiny of the Tender *
document. Information/data provided in the Tender document will be treated as
final and in case of any error/ misreporting/disparity, the State Government and the
IC will be equally liable for payment of additional claims arising on account of it,
ifany.
www.pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY 3)

--- Page 109 ---
Loo

7.2.1.7 For the current season or subsequent seasons (in a multi-year contract), the
States/UTS, if required, can notify additional 1115 or de-notify certain |Us subject to
maximum deviation of 10% of the already notified |Us for the crop within a district at
the same premium rate, before the cut-off date for debit of premium. If the deviation

ಕ 15 ೨10% or in case of addition of a new crop, the actuarial premium rate may be
based on the calculation of weighted average premium rate as prevalent in
contiguous districts or by applying appropriate loading on the existing premium

ಇ rate. The rates for such crops will be determined /verified by the TSU and its
decision will be binding on both States and ICs.

7.24.8 In case of creation/re-organization of any new IU/Districts by the State Government
after the finalization of tender, it shall be included in the scheme with the same
terms and conditions as parent |U/Districts from the next season within the contract
period. In case an IU moves out of a district to be part of another existing district
then concurrently corresponding distficti(the district in which IU is moving) rates will
be applied. In case of formation of a district by re-organizing a portion of more than
one distri n weighted: average. ay rate foreach notified crop will be
dete: considering the last season's insured ಸ್‌ the concemed part of
district as@veight. || | | SN

7.24.9 States implementing PMFBY atthe Village! Village Panchayat level for major

{crops'shall be entitled for 50% reimbursement of incremental expenses of
( CCES and the cost of smart phones/improved technology from the Gol. Only
eligible items will be ತ (ಇ... ತತ್ತ The data source for calculation
|"... ofadmissibility of incremental CCEs “a” NCIP. ಗೆ
‘ 73 Notification of | domnity Level, Ave ಟ್‌ Threshold Yield:
7.3.1 [| Scheme provides for ado 10110೦16೪0 of indemnity, viz 70%, 80% and 90%.
> __‘State\Government in consultation wit 560601 Shall finalize the indemnity
eee iotified/crops at the distri andthe same Will be provided in the
tender ddctiment The bee in thefTender forthe current season and
, the same Will be used,foriclaim (೦1 forthat sea: son: The Average‘Yield of a
. notified cropin IU will bethe average yield ofthe best five years out of thelast seven
. years. The TY of then siti d ep 15 ೨೧131 to the Average Yield multiplied by
the Indemnity level. The TX for any crép and IU shall as declared inthe tender
documentissued by the State should compulsorily be part of the notification
for the season/contract period and shall not change at any point during that
7.3.2 The Indémnity level of the dist 141 1೦॥ combination should be prescribed in the
tender and Will,remain'the sari during the ontigsponiract period. In case of
re-organization/éreation. of new districts, similar provisions as detailed in
Para 7.2.1.8 will be applicablesInteaseuf formation of new district by re-organizing
portions of more than one existing districts, then weighted average indemnity level
by considering the last season area insured of each notified crop as weight with
7 rounding-off to the nearest Indemnity level defined under the OG will be the
. applicable indemnity level. This will be applicable for the tender duration only.
7.3.3 The calculation and notification of TY - For calculation of TY, historical average yield
F of the best five out of last seven years shall be considered. Further TY should be
defined only at the notified area level and once included in the notification issued by
the State, it should not be changed at a later stage under any circumstances.
In case of multi-year contract, the TY for the subsequent years shall be adopted
choosing one of the following methods for computation: ನ
www.pmiby.gov.in
| Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 110 ---
v
ಸೆ
7.3.3. Fixed TY - TY as derived from the best 5 of the immediate last 7 years crop yield
data and notified indemnity level, will remain unchanged for the entire contract
period. The premium rates quoted by ICs will remain unchanged for the entire
contract period. Itis described in the Illustration 1 below-
Mlustration 1: Fixed TY .
Assumption:
Ifpast7 years yield at Insurance unit level are as below:
2014 | 2015 | 2016 | 2017 | 2018 | 2019
1500 | 1700 1900 | 1850 | 1400 | 2000
ThresholdYield: 9 § |) | |) SG
TY calculatédias per formula prescribed jn Revised OB,
Foufitla ffeest 5-year Yield) xNabies Indemnity level}.+ 5%,
Under this method the TY calculated in year 1 will remalf. constant across IUs
#auring the entire contract period as illustrated in the table beléiy: 0 1
| 1ಗ್ರೂಣ್ಗಣಗ/ Level us. |. 70% 70% 1. 70%
ಜಾ ಬ ಯಾ ಇ. ಜೆ ೬. ಚ
4 Under thjs method) ಹಟ್‌ SIC In first3Vear will remain same
4, throughouifithe tender »period: For ‘éxample}yif the jpgemiuim rate quoted by
.-.insurancéseampany fo) a distric:crop.ceqphipation is 43% and then it will remain
| 18% forthe ಜ್‌ pend asi trafedinthetaple below: 4
Evaltiation of tender process anddetermination of L1 Company:
Under thistinethod, every 1C Viil-quote. ಯ for each district crop
combination notified.by concerned State/JT, L4;will be determined on the basis of
lowest weighted average premiuifurate:considering last corresponding season's
area insured as weights for all crops combined for that cluster.

7.3.32 Laddered TY - If the district level average change in yield for a crop over
immediately preceding 7 years is negative then fixed TY mentioned as in Para -
7.3.3.1, above shall apply. Otherwise, immediately preceding 7 years district level
average growth rate in yield will be used to fix the TY for each of the subsequent two
seasons of all concerned 105 for these seasons within the contract period and = *
same shall be pre-notified at the time of tender itself. IC shall quote one rate of the
premium for all the seasons accordingly. Lowest bid shall be determined
considering last year’s insured area as detailed in Para 7.2. To ensure clarity in the
understanding two illustrations Il & Il have been provided below:

www.pmfby.gov.in ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 111 ---
lo4
11019. - 0164101 19001 average yield is a crop specific simple average of yields across
the IUs in a district. The above exercise is to be performed for each crop notified in
adistrict.
Illustration 2: Laddered TY- Negative growth rate in last 7 years yield
Assumptions
: Iflast7-year district level average yield of a crops notified is as:
viele | 1000 [1000 | 1600 | 1900 | 1690 | 1400 | 400
Indemnity Level-70%
ThresholdYield: = || = |
Here, ayéfage sige ale Jib ap s asiealculated below:
11811118 ಲ
ಟೆ al O-1}+(1600/§090-3)4(1900}1 G00-1)+ (1850 90024)+(1400/1850-1)
ಸ 00/1100)-1)/6 11 1 t- ag Ra,

ಕ In thigcease since average growth rate 1೧ last 7years yieldhis negative, TY will
£ remain constant for the concemed crop across IUs, acros§ [ಟು period
(1 as below: ಸ್ಸ "i a

: | ಟೆ S| Hoes | oss ff | 1087]
110101 vole for Bach Cropito be. notified’in'a dist ಚ್‌ Bluation and ಓರ for
its growtfirate to sep 79. rent years in a contract period Loo as

ಕ್ಕ. Note2 = Please note that "TY, noeds 19.10, be calculated: at 111 level withthe data
rolated torespective ಟಾ... Rg

ಸ ಭತ Nyt ie ದೆ

ರ ವ ಚ] ಜಟ)
6711/೨3 ethod, 6೪501/1750021 ಆ will quoté’the premium rate for each
district crop co Hieron 101 by State Goyeriment. L1 will be determined on
the basis of lowes! weighted: avera gesraté’ considering last year insured area
as weight.

., Mustration 3: Laddered TY- Positive - growth rate in last 7 years yield

: Assumptions
District level average yield considering yield of all crops notified is as below:
Year] 2018 | oie | 2015 | 2016 | 017 | 2018 | 2019
Yiets_| 1000 | 1000 | 1600 | 1900 | 1850 ] 1400 [1200 |
3 www.pmiby.gov.in.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 112 ---
ಸು
Indemnity Level-70%
Method
Average Yield growth rate in last 7 years = 6.25% as calculated below:
[(1000/4000-1)+{1600/1000-1)+(1900/1600-1)+(1850/1900-1)+(1400/1850-1)
*(1200/1400,-1)/6 7
In this case since average growth rate in last 7-years yield is positive (6.25%).
Threshold yield of each |U for that crop will vary with the same growth rate as below:
Year a ಷಾ
Indemnity Level 70% | 70% 70% _
Threshold Yield Re 1| ಎತ 1183 1257
Note1- ್ಟ್ಮ್ಮ್ಯ್‌ಫ್ಮಪ ಫ ಫ be notified ine district needs evaluation and check for
its graivth site 10 set-up T¥s for different years in a contract period. There may be a
cag) thatisome crops 17 8 district will have ‘constant TY (a%shown, in illustration 1)
afd soméStepped- up TY as Shown in ilusstration ನ್ಯ 4
ಶೆ: Please note that fist year TY (of a. crop) needs to beicalculatéd at 1U 10101
with data related to respective 10. iInd and 1111ರ year TY of different I Usineed to be
i? caleule ited with incorporation of TY growth rate as explained above. © ee
ಸಂ Note3- Yield growth 13105] preceding 7 years must be ¢nsiderediyp to 2
ಕ... deciffiat places. NEES HSS 1 ತ್ತ ಇ
| __ ttwillSmainsameacrosSthe contract period like lifustration | .
_Evaluationoftenderp vv A stion ಇದ್ದ |
"ಸ್ಮ. ಟಿ60 (1/5 (1,2106, every IC. will quote ತೆ premiumrate for each district crop
% ಬ 11001 ed byaihe | tats Goverfiment. L1will be determified as the
"ಡ್ಯ company haviag lowest Weighted average rate considering last year,fisured area
733.3 Vagiatble TY -in this case, ೬ cfbp in an 1U may be computes) every year after
incotperating the actual. 0 0/1 of the previous yearFor premium rate
determination; incréase/decreaseit TY will be determined'by considering district
level weighted average yield (assuming last yearinsured.area as weight) of a crop.
The premium rate stiall be increaged/decreased as'per mechanism detailed in the
table below: Ore ete
Corresponding Increase/ Decrease in APR against each 1% point
Increase/Decrease in TY ಆ
APR Grid Indemnity Level
0%<=APR<5% 4.65% 5.80%
\www.pmfby.gov.in 9
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 113 ---
yy
Corresponding Increase! Decrease in APR against each 1% point
Increase/Decrease in TY
APR Grid : Indemnity Level
5%<=APR<10% 2.80%. 3.45% 4.15%
3 10%<=APR<15% 2.10% 2.50%
15%<=APR<20% | 120% | 1.50% 1.75%
20% <=APR<25% 0.95% 1.15% 1.40%
25%<=APR<30%) (|! |07% 1 0.95% 1.15%
11... _ ಭೌ ಮು
Ya. extreme ಆಚೆ ಗಂಟ application of prescribed change
in rates as above result in negative premium rate , the TSU willwork out the
rates{ Worked-out rates by the TSU after the approval of DAC&FW will be
acceptable to all concemed stakeholders. 8 ಸ
1105172000 4: 9120107... 1 ್ನಿ
ಕ Assumptions, | =e yr 4 A
~~ Distrigt level Lone Bic year’s area inSured as weight) of
= anotifigd crop > ಷೆ &
| is 1 ಇ ಓಟ ಅಂಕೆ 1 foo
Indemnity Level =70% O Mee ie
Premium rate quoted. by dsurance Company for afdistrict crop
com Bination=13% ಸ. ee ee ಗ ಹ್ಮ
z Year 2020,TY (Notional at distrigileve 15 calculated as perex isting formula (using
data givenitistassumplion) andi for year2021 andyear 2022 are just assumed
Threshold Yield | nes |] 1226 |] 18 |
ಇ Method ;
. Growth in District level Threshold Yield:
Year1: 0%
. Year 2: 1225/1183-1= 3.55%
198/3: 1155/1183-1= -2.37%
Note: in year 1 there would not be any change in TY as it will be known to Insurance
company during tender process.
: www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ®

--- Page 114 ---
. yw
Variation in Premium Rate:
Year 1=13%
Year 2 = 13%*(1+(3.55°1.7%))= 13.78%
Year 3 = 13%*(1+(-2.37°1.7%))=12.48% ಸ
Note? - Please note that district level Threshold yield has been calculated notionaily to
calculate changes in Actuarial Premium Rate (as premium rates are quoted at district level)
and have no other relevance. a
110192 - Since premium rate is quoted for each district-crop combination, the above
exercise needs to be performed for all the crops notified in a district.
Evaluation of tender process and determination of L1 Company:
Under this method, every IC will quote premium rate for each district crop
combination notified by State’ Government, L1 will be determined as company
having lowest weighted average rate considering last years area insured
as ಪ್‌ ! | ಕಕ್ಕಿ
{lial Pfemium 8210 (ಗಿಗಣ) 1 . . ಜಟ ae
00151" Please note that TY may vary at IU level but for Premium rate
| & determination, weighted average yield (considering the last year insUfed area as
2 weight) at the district level forrespective crops willbe considered. a
{)  Noté® ~ Tose factors of increasc/decraase have been ascertained indefigndent of
© ೧೦ರ 179೧/೧೧ and reflect the country: level: impact due to changes in TY. There may ಸ
© be different levels of impact on burn’ cost at thepdistrict/regional levelidue to
|. Inthis'@as¢ the States/UTs would,haye to provide IU leyelicrop yield data well in
__advancesaithat therevised TY.and vy ale could be calculated andinotified
\_ Incase of Unavailability, of latest season yield data, the prior season yield
« data can be Used for pig: ho Wer, base TY will not be allowed to be
‘changed even if the latest data is made available post tender.coriclusion.
White 2 dopting any one ne of ab Ov three methods, the following assumptions
i. Modéllising past data may qf bes true reffection offuture events.
ji. Standardized rates prescribed above jot exactly reflect the risks inherent
in specific district crop combination.
iil. This modelis subjected to spurious accuracy in certain cases.
iv. Increase/ Decrease in TY is being tested at the district level, but TY can vary at °
the IU level and therefore have an element of approximation.
v. _ Increase/ Decrease in rates are calculated by the expected loss ratio of 80%. `
vi. As with all statistical/mathematical models, this method is also subject to
modelling error. ‘
www.pmfby.gov.in. ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 115 ---
113
vii, Prescribed changes in premium rate is calculated considering mid-point of
each APR range band except in 0-5% range wherein itis calculated at 4.5%.
vii. This model assumes normality in yield data and therefore subject to an
element of error in case of departure from normality.
7.3.4. In exceptional cases, where the last corresponding season yield data is not
available at the time of Bidding, yield data is to be provided before the harvesting of
. the current season. However, the yield data upto last to last corresponding season
should be provided at the time of bidding itself. In such cases admissible claims will
be anyway calculated on the basis of data available at the time of bidding.
7.4 Notification of Sum Insured
The States/UTs need to choose either the Scale of Finance or Notional Average
Value (Notional Average Yield x Minimum Selling Price (MSP) / Farm Gate Price)
(Farm gate price will be considered for the other crops for which MSP is not
declared) method for calculation of Sum Insured for a district-crop combination for
the entiresjperiod of contract. The crop-wise sum: insured notified in the first
year/season Could be changed in the subsequent yeat/season as per the change in
the Stale 6f finance or the MSP/ Fann gate price as available for the notified crop
and'decided upon by the State. However, change in the Sum insured over a year
_dile to the change in the Scale of Finance/farm gate price will be capped at 10%
“every year. 3 | ಲ
ಕೆ * ಕ್ಲ %,
75 Fs Notification of Seasonality discipline: |
2... States/UTs in accordance with the broad Seasonality definediprescribéfyn these
+ 05 5731 also notify the seasonality discipline for various activities Under the
ಡಿ ಟಃ Scheme viz. submission of insurance. proposals/application, consolidated
declatations sby (banks, remittance clase ium 10105, uploading of individual
"covered farmer's data on NCIP, submis of yield'data, claim assessment of
2 losses 1೦೯ {i) standing crop (ii). paper ಜ್‌ ies iii) prevented sowing, (iv)
post-Hatvest losses, (v) On-Account payment for major calamities, etc agiper the
provisions of the Sch emesis) ೬ ie” : ee
7.6 _ Notification o ‘Autoniati€Weath +) $ (AWS):
7.6.1 "\ Only those AWSIARGs ಶ್ವಿ ತ್ತ (0 Gévernment /private agencieg Should be
“considered and notified which are as pér standards defined by IMD/WMO and are
‘certified and approved bythe IMD/any agency ‘notified by the#State/Central
Government. These must be Optimally operational and be able to, ide real time
wrath ಗಲ Ol.private agencies should only be‘considered in the
‘bsence of properly ಸಾ /ARGs of IMD/ State Government AWS /ARG
data sourced for crop insurance should be transferred on’real time basis to the
NCIP for calculation of admissible claims. The detailed guidelines for this have
already beentiplogdedontheNGIB at
7.6.2 State can explore the possibilitora eating ‘a dense AWS/ARG network on Public
Private Partnership (PPP) Mode for which the Gol will provide 50% of the viability
gap funding.
7.6.3 The following data sources may be used for validation of on-account claims and
ತ claims for prevented sowing:
< Satellite/UAV Remote Sensing Data.
4 AWS/ARG Data,
ಅ Mahanalobis National Crop Forecast Centre (MNCFC) Report/Study on
drought assessment. :
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 116 ---
i;

7.6.4 State shall notify the ರ್ಟ weather data provider/ expert agency whose
report! methodology would be used in assessing the extent of losses and
computation of claims. Cost of such weather data for PMFBY shall be borne
by the concerned IC. However, in case of requirement of data for resolution
of disputes, cost of weather data will be borne bythe concerned stakeholder 1
raising the dispute, The normative cost of procurement of weather data will
be fixed by the Gol to address the grievance of abnormally high rates
charged in certain instances. The notified AWS and ARG should fulfill/ meet *
the standards/ norms/ criteria specified by IMD/other concerned authorities
from time to time.

8. Engagement of Common Service Centres (CSCs) and Other
Intermediaries for coverage of Non-Loanee Farmers:

8.4 The ೦505 under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY) have
been engaged to enrol hon-oanee farmers. Nodal agency for engagement with
MOA&EW and ICs ey 05೧-೫೯೪, a company St ee under MelTY for
carryifia gut e-govemanse (ಚತ for the 01.1 "61737666 ICs will

orfipulsérily be requiréd'to enter into an agreement with GSC-SPV for the
enrolment of non-loaneé farmers and for the provision of other defined services to
formes and pay service charges as fixed by the MOABFW, Gol.

8.2 {All applications of one Unique farmer of one village for a particular Season and

(Scheme tobe ಎರಾ 35.07೧ unit for the payment of service charges. No other
By agreément or payment i os bemiade for this purpose. &

B30 No charges/fegshall bebo ಗಗ Sed by the farmersbeing en Fes trough CSCs
| ie. 'ESC-SBVjand Common Service. Centre = Village ee! Enterpreneur
ಟ್ಟ (೮507/೬೯) 1781೧/0 ಟ್‌ romney be isplayed by the concerned :
a CSC-VLEson their noticé;board, clearly Visible by all visitors. Strict jibes
ಟಟ ಬಯ ್ಮ | oe dim the farmers. ij

84 ‘Any payment deducted from the walletof CSC-VLE against the PMFBY/RWBCIS

“policies cafniot be refunded wi ee ಟ್‌ the Central Portalteam. The

“S, amount received againstthe suc 1 policies on NCIP will be transferred to the

> concerned IC hext day of the transaction (T+1). Difference between the amount

“received by CSC-SPV.on day, T and {he amount pertaining to successful policies

day 1) will be recapciled.within next 7.days. Delay in remitting the aforesaid

premium amou ond 7 days will attract a penal interest as.decided by the Gol
basedion ಬ್‌ ಅ ಚ! A.

8.5 While accepting, the applicatio ftom the individual farmers CSC-VLE will explain
the provisions andirequirement of documents along with consequences of wrong
submission of information/docuiments t6 the farmers and further take due care that
all the documents submitted by farmers are properly scrutinised, verified and
uploaded on NCIP in legible form to avoid any anomaly in the coverage of that
particular farmer by the IC.

8.6 As per the IRDA\ circular, no separate qualification/certification will be required for
the CSC-VLEs to facilitate enrolment of nontoanee farmers. However, proper
training/ capacity building program should be arranged for them by the ~
stakeholders including CSC-SPV. The Banking Correspondent (BC) associated
with the designated branches of the rural financial institutions including the public
sector banks financing KCC/Agriculture short term loans at subsidized interest rate
are also authorized to collect the applications/premium from the -desirous

www.pmtby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 117 ---
ns
non-loanee farmers similar 10 CSC-VLE. Creation of login credential on the NCIP
and approval of such eligible BCs should compulsorily be done by the branch head
of the concemed bank branches. The activities including undertaking of business
by such BCs are to be monitored by the bank branches and responsibility of
irregularities if any will lie with the bank. Other designated enrolment intermediaries

2 may be empanelled and linked with the NCIP in due course as and when such new
channels are approved by the MoA&FW for the enrolment of farmers.

8.7 Empanelled 105 have to necessarily register all licensed insurance
agents/insurance intermedianes engaged for enrolment of non-loanee farmers in
the beginning of each season within 10 days of the award of work in the State on
NCIP and submit the list and details of such agents/intermediaries to the concerned
Nodal department of the State Government. Further all agents/intermediaries have
towork strictly as per the provisions of the Scheme and IRDAI regulations.

9 Electronic Remittance of Funds: ©
gi
9.1 The 001: 876 State Government will endeavour toYtilize Public Financial
Management System (PFMS)/PFMS linked systems to femilithe funds to the State
yay dilemma ತ ಗ Be,
9.2 Banks, CSC-SPV and other Insurance Agents/intermediarigs are required to remit
gre consolidated premium payment to respective ICs maiidatorithrough the
¢/ Payment gateway of NCIP 6r payment challan generated through NCIP within the
{Stipulated date. The remittance of the premium should compulgorily be done within
J the Cut-off date stipulated for the enrolment agencies. Bank détails of ICs shall be
| madé available on the Challan/Portal itself. The applicable service charges for
: 4 remittance of premium amount through payment gateway shall be borne by
the |payer ite. Banks, Insurance Agents/Intermediarjes, and Farmers
ತ enrolling themselves 11220 ing ‘payment gateway Charges
: Rs 5/Shapplicable GST (ie. Rs, 5.90/-) pertransa on)
9.3 Toadjustthe varianee in the remitted premium die to rounding off by the banks and
the Insurance agenté/iritermediaries to.the sespective [Gs through the payment
ಹ. gateway ofthe 1101, ಗ್ವಂ ಇ ತಂ ifthis 21710111]! 15 plus / minusRs. 10/-.
4, However ifthe amount exceeds Rs_f10/- then jbanks:and the/Insurance
‘\ agents/Intermediaries arevallowed to remit a maxim ym a 101171 of Rs, 100/- to the
“Gyespective ICs "through thé payment "ಬೀ of the NCI P in order to cover the
‘aforesaid ‘shortfall beyond the stipulated premium remittance cut-off date upto
e¢onciliation. aN ತಾ 1 ೬4
te ಪ್ರಚಾರಕ ry
9.4 All Cs Will maintain only one bank account for crop in surane® business throughout
the Coul premium credilligeluding farmers sharéSlate share and central
share of subsidy:frgm all concerned stakeholders, This amount will only be used for
premium purpose aridno other ribney can beréredited to this account. The ICs will
upload account statement of this‘account on the NCIP of the preceding month by
the 3” of the next month to ensure easy and quick reconciliation.
* No remittance/financial transaction in the form of Banker's cheque/Demand —-
Draft will be allowed. ಇ
9.5 The ICs will be provided login access to the essential crop notification
data/information along with farmer level coverage data including banking details of
F individual farmers on the Portal to reconcile, verify, validate and calculate payable
claims and remit_the same directly into pre-declared bank accounts linked to the
NCIP through PFMS. There is no need of separate KYC process at the time of
payment of claims by the ICs as the requisite details such as Aadhaar number, land
record details, address etc have been captured atthe time of enrolmentitself.
wwew.pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 118 ---
10

9.6 Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AEPS) lo be used as primary source of
payment of claims for enrolment done through all sources except Banks.

10 Census Code Mapping of Entities:

10.1 All States/UTs shall update census codes of their villages with the higher
administrative/revenue units like Gram Panchayat, Firkas, Patwar Circles,
Revenue Circles, Hoblis, Mandals, Blocks, Tehsils, Talukas, Districts as wellasof = «
Automatic Weather Stations/Backup Weather Stations. Only revenue
classification will be considered. This will create a standard mechanism of
mapping and identification across the country.

10.2 States/UTs are advised to adopt the Revenue Hierarchical System under PMFBY
and RWBCIS and accordingly will ungate the village master to facilitate notification
on portal. However, foritime i aegis will ensure that for notification of
Hierarchical,System i.e; Revenue m or Administrative System for PMFBY
and RWBGIS should be San ಯ database for further reporting
and aflysis” FEET Ga: ಕ್‌

10.3 Ror 1೧೯ purposes of ‘obtaining ಯು State 7109! 3190 provide ೧6೦ .

{Coded,atitude & longitude) ate 5 in digital format for SST/optimization of
ತ CCEgand integration withother Apps likeCCE Agri App, Crop Insurance App. Loss
ಕ್ರ repolting/AssessmentAppett. {6 AH %

11 § 0101112800 oranda : ತ || \

14.1 |... ಟರ the in 500 eme of Digital Indiand Record Modernisation

©) Program (DIERMP) ಗ the Slates have digitized their land r is. To
| address the: lems of OVerinsurance-and acteage discrepancy, SI are ಕ
36150010 integrated th dlandjécords with the NCIP so that the individual
land reebrds of fa mers: accessed throughrthe NG}Pifor crop insur This
will help the: Governmetitito reach’ and identify ndividbal beneficiaries and bring

42 ಸ, Suminsured /Coverage Limit: 7 fF

12.1 States/UTs need to choose eller thA’Scale of Finance or Notional Average Value
Insurég.for a district-crop combination for the entire periodof the contract. The
subsequent yéar/season as per ದ le of finance or MSP/ Farm
gate price as available. for thelipotified cropsand decided upon by the State.
However, any change in the’sum/nsured over a year due to changes in the scale of
finance/farm gate price will be capped at 10% within the contract period. The sum
Insured for individual farmer is equal to the §cale of finance or Notional Average
Value (NAYxMSP/Farm Gate Price) per hectare multiplied by the area of the = |
notified crop proposed by the farmer for insurance. Area under cultivation shall
always be expressed in hectare.

12.2 In cases where crops are separately notified under irrigated, rainfed category by
the States/UTs, the Sum Insured value for irrigated and rainfed areas should be

: separately indicated.
‘www.pmfby.gov,in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಛಿ

--- Page 119 ---
No
13 _ Premium Rates and Premium Subsidy: =
13.1 The Actuarial Premium Rate (APR) would be charged under PMFBY& RWBCIS by
implementing Insurance Company. The rate of premium payable by the farmer will
+ be as per the following Table 1:
‘Maximum Premium Rate
. Crops payable by farmer
(% of Sum Insured)*
eee Nome ree 2.0% of 5! or Actuarial rate,
Olsens oes) whichever is less
All Food grain and Oilseeds crops | ನ
Rabi | (all Cereals, wy we and 1.5% ಸ rate,
Oilseeds crops) | | | |]
Kharif and] Annual Commercial/ Annual | 5% of SI or Actuarial rate,
Rabi gg Horticultural ctops i _§ Qwhichever is less
Perennial horticultural / commercial ಕ or Actuarial rate,
ಜೆ. ಶೆ 7೦೧5 (pilot basis), || | “whichever is less
‘Noto: Premium paid by non loange farmers ¢hauld be rounded offto nearést Rupee.
Poni of GovernmentSubsidy: |g %
7 Allfarmers enrolled under the scheme would be entitled for admissible subsidy on
theActuarial Premium. ..: |
4
. 13.1.1 The'differencebetween Actuar ium Rate (ARR) and fe Rate of turance
premium payable by farmers stiall bes(reated ag thé, Rate of Normal Rremium
5 Subsidy, which Shall be shared equally in 50:50 ratio bythe Centre and Stales/UTS
in all 'States/UTS\except:North’ Easte egion) (NER) where. subsidy/Sharing
patte Rts een the Centre and Sta in the 90:10 ratio. ye
13.4.2 \\ ~The full Gol share in'the premium subsidy a per sharing pattern in Para 13.1.1
> , above will be applicable 11. 25% and 30% with respect {6 irrigated
and rainfed areas/districttrespeciively. FOr APR beyond those rates, Gol share of
subsidy will bé\limited to the applicaty IG share uptg’ the APR of 25% & 30% for
ಕ irrigated and rainfed districts) resp ce @ applicability’of APR for
ittigated/unirrigated districts_will be’ on the basis of the data published by
Diféctorate of Economics:and Statistics (DES), DACAFW andirevised'from time
totimads, = YY poo ಜಾ. ಐ
13.1.3 For the purpose-of categorization of Districts between Rainfed and Irrigated,
districts 0121170 50%: ೦೯ more offihe Gross in area will be categorized as
Irrigated. The list of the distrittsalong.with percentage irrigated area is available on
the NCIP and will be updated in consultation with DES, MOA&FW from time to time.
ಖೃ * 13.1.4 However, the States/ UTs are free to extend additional subsidy over and above the
| normal subsidy from their budget. In other words, additional subsidy, if any shall be
bome entirely by the State/ UT. Subsidy in premium is allowed only to the extent of
notified Sum Insured.
: 13.4.5 The Government premium subsidy to the Private empanelled ICs may be routed
through Agricultural Insurance Company (AIC) or any agency designated by the
Gol strictly as per the guidelines/order of the Gol. This may be reviewed later by
Central Government and changed accordingly if necessary. Accordingly, AIC/ other
ಹ www pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY [24]

--- Page 120 ---
` ಸ
designated agency is empowered to call/ collect all requisite information related to
implementation of the Scheme and utilization of Government funds and to share
the same with the Government for better planning. implementation and monitoring
of the Scheme. The premium subsidy will be routed through PFMS/PFMS linked
systems strictly based on the Management Information System (MIS) generated »
through NCIP.

13.1.6 Government both Centre and State, will release their share of advance subsidy «
(First Instalment) equivalent to 50% of 80% of their respective share of subsidy in
corresponding previous season subject to fulfilment of General Financial Rule
(GFR)/guidelines in the matter without waiting for coverage details for the
ongoing season.

13.1.7 To facilitate settlement of risks of prevented sowing/ mid-season
adversity/localized Calamity: 105 should release the admissible claim amount to
the beneficiary immediately after receipt of farmers premium and advance subsidy
(1st Instalment) and-without waiting for release. of final subsidy (2nd
Instal ಗ Government. The premium in respect Ghaffected 1Us including
subsidy to,enable settlement af claims arising due to ab@ye GYents in respect of all
such berieficiaries 5081 06 adjusted from the fund already: available with ICs as.
advance’ upfront subsidy (1st Instalment) to facilitate cofpplianée with Section

4 64VB of Insurance Act/Regulation of IRDAI. ಕ್ಷೆ S
13.1.8 | All ೫ claims based on Yield data/Post harvest losses will be’settled on
Ej roca of second instalment of Government subsidy to be paid on ce eee of
tentative business stalistics generated on the Portal after 15 days of the period
speGified for auto approval of applications on the Portal. The remaining 4
| Govetnment sfiisidy, f any will be paid after reconéiiation of gil business statistics
1 for: ಚ್ಚ ಗ & Pg i J ;
131.91, All empanelled\ICs inéluding’ private*ICs shall providdfree accessito the
(3. ೮6702/5131 leveliage ಟ್‌ [ಕೆ & Auto General (CAG) and its
ಗಯ ಯಯ to verify the’ accounts and/addit in respect to the
"|... implementation of PMEBY/RWBGIS. ಕ ಬಾ
13.1.10 “),_ Incase, the State Governmentis willing tosubsidize: ull farmer: hare.of premium,
>a token farmenPremium ofminimum Re. 1 should compulsonly be charged from
‘the farmer to facilitate electronic tracking ಕರಗಳ ಇಂ...

434.11 States/UTs shall not be allowedtto implement the Scheme in suBSequent seasons
(atleasttwo seasons) in, case 0 considerable delay by States/UTs in release of
requisite Premium: Subsidy. to}@oncemed ICs beyond’ prescribed time limit.

' Cut-off dates*for cing this provision for Kharif-arid Rabi seasons will be 31°
March of succeedifigyear and 30 September‘6f that year respectively. However,
State shall have to pay a penallyw@"interest rate of 12% per annum beyond three
months of prescribed cut-off date for release of subsidy which shall be deposited in
the Central Govemment Technology Fund.

14 Budget for Administrative Expenses: ಹಃ

14.1 Upto 3% of the total budget for PMFBY/RWBCIS shall be earmarked by States/UTs
for implementation and monitoring of the Scheme including better deployment of

manpower and infrastructure, administrative expenses, IEC activities, 11616/1055
assessment expenses, purchase of weather data, purchase of smart phones,
adoption of new technology, setting up of State Technical Support Unit (STSU),
travelling and contingency fund etc.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ©

--- Page 121 ---
Ng
14.2 Government of India has already made provisions for aforesaid activities under sub
heads like Salaries, Domestic Travel Expenses, and Technology interventions,
Office Expenses, other Administrative Expenses and Professional Services etc. for
Crop Insurance program under PMFBY/RWBCIS. States should make provisions
and budgetary allocation on similar lines including subhead for incremental cost
5 of CCEs.
. 15 Technical Support Unit (TSU)/CPMU:
15.1 National Technical Support Unit (NTSU) or Central Program Management Unit
(CPMU) has been created at the Central level to provide support and advise on risk
classification & rating, research & development of new products, methodology for
loss assessment, legal works, workshop/training & capacity building, along with
the use of technology including innovation/ replication, digitization of
administration of ಆಂಗ ತ್ಯ inp ih NCIP.
15.2 NTSU shall,calculate wl Gost (LE)li.e. Claims.as percentage (%) of Sum
Insured (SI) observed ಕಟ್ಟ] ied crop(s) in rioliféd. unit area of insurance
during#he preceding 108i 1131 ೧00 Seasons (Kharif/ Rabi) along with approximate
APR Of thie crops sore be notified for the season The loss cospremium
ale shall’be based on the latest available yield data provided to DAC&FW by the
(Conceffied States before tion for. premium bidding. This calculation to be
(done by NTSU on behalf of DA as only for official purposes to have
{information on the approxima’ 6 ಓಜ [ಅ IC for covering) the risks so as to
7 evalliate the bidsin properperspective, 8! %
| ಭೈ
15.3 NTSU shall also devel 1106 logy for risk ಈ ಗರಗ (ಗಗ
1. by using historical, yield jdata, weather data, [se and level of
| inpulgjirriga igrllechnology,in Ciop cultivation, rémole sensing data/information
© etc. for, standardization ofthe yaethodoioa for riskiperception and premium rating
ಷಃ 1೦೯೮೦೧1 ura ಲ್ವ! the co t |
154 i be ith creationiof NTSU | GPMU atCentralfevel, all States/UTs implementing
. Schemes should alsoycréate a Separate TSU/PMU at State Headquarter (HQ) level
With: sufficient: techni A 1 91]5161911 10. eftsure. proper implementation of the
, Scheme. State TSU (STSU) may also ‘ontfor members on contractual/temporary
_ basis or take Services of ther organizationsiresearch institutes etc as deemed fit.
However, Statés ಗ allocatéa separate/budget for running the STSU
(fefer Para14.1. above). ಟಾ 1 APG 1.1: &
16.1 The cut-offidate is uniform for bal Loanee and non-loanee farmers. The District
-wise cut-off dates for di erent erg 15 shall be 020006 9 Crop Calendar of major
crops prepared in consultation vith the concémed State GovernmentvICAR. and
crop division of DAC&PW*Which*has also been published on NCIP.
(www.pmfby.gov.in.). If any deviation is observed by the States/UTs from the
aforesaid list, it may be brought to the notice of the DAC&FW for rectification, if
required. The SLCCCI, shall besides considering the prevailing agro-climatic
ಜ್‌ conditions, rainfall distribution/ availability of water for irrigation, sowing pattern etc.
fix seasonality discipline of the coverage and other activities in such a way that it
does not encourage adverse selection or moral hazards. If this is violated by
. SLCCCI, Gol may decide not to provide premium subsidy.
16.2 The cut-off date for enrolment of each notified crop should be based on crop
calendars of the districts and normally may not be beyond 15” July for Kharif
i season and 15” December for Rabi crops. Preferably notified crops may be
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ®

--- Page 122 ---
ಜು ಸರ at See i ಪಸರ -.
120
categorized in three seasons Kharif, Rabi & Summer/Zaid crops depending on
sowing period and the cut-off date for enrolment may also be fixed accordingly.
16.3 All States/UTs shall consider to prepone the cut-off dates for Kharif and Rabi
seasons, Advancement of cut-off may help in reduction of premium rates and may
help in reducing financial burden on the States. =
16.4 The broad indicative seasonality discipline is given in the Table 2 below: 2
| Action to be
S.No. Activity Kharif Rabi taken by
Conduct of SLCCCI meeting to take
decision for notification of Crops and 45° Nodal
1 areas, adoption of Level of indemnity bap 1" June Department of
and to inform crop wise sum i ier States/UTs.
etc. for drafting of Tender ent ae
Uploading.gfregiiisite informationidata |... ೨0" Ry, Si, Nodal
2 on crop,ifsurance Portal and Issuing of] 415 ber June, | Department of
Tendefidocuffients. i | a % “Qj. States/UTs.
palizationof Tender and award of = || ್ಮ್ಮ 15° iy ಡಿ
Be eae ಕ್ವ 428 epartment of
ಸ [pear | st | [Rai
£P Digitization of notification and,” (ಹೆ © | By State/UTs
=| downloading/ issuance of notifications, |... 16” and
1! from NGIP for circulation amonaett ೫.) August} |. Concerned =
| stakeholders. ಚ Ak | 2
ತೆ 5 i ¢ ite
Awareness! sep siizalton train ‘tn yd ape
| program mes by,State Go 15% Marc! epte Concerned
somes et rrop calendar). | (101/1 A" October | Stakeholders.
24100 ee ota | days pict to
2. ೬ date} cutoff date
7 | ಟು ಯ |. for detita|® tor debi’ | Bank/Loance
insured erop by ಟ್‌ | collecur'ot | collection of | Farmers.
= premium premium
from from
+ farmers. farmers.
Alteast7 | Alteast 7 .
days before | days before
Cut-off date for opting out of existing the the Bank/u
loanee farmers from the scheme for prescribed | prescribed | “re |”
currenVongoing season. cut-off date | cut-off date aera
for for
enrolment. | enrolment.
www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 123 ---
(2.
= Action to be =
S. No. Activity Kharif [Rabi | taken by
| Upto last
Cut-off date for receipt of Applications of eae date of
ಆ farmers/debit of premium from farmers | enrolment of OMEN 01. ್ರ್ರಾ(/೧ಸ05/
account (loanee and non-loanee) by all! farmers as | 13111015 25 | “Cscipcs
g _| Stakeholders including banks/PACS/ | notified by 1 Insurance
=: BCs/CSC! insurance agent/online States for notified agent/online
enrolment by farmers etc. notified crop(s) or | enrolment by
‘Note: “This is indicative only and district |CFOP(S) OT UP) [10 167 |. farmers etc.
wise crop calendar will be the final 2 ನ December*
basis to arrive at cut-off dato. ಗಗ! 10/ Rabi
season.
e & § {Strictly within 15 days 1101
© | § § | cut-off date forenrolment| — State/UT
10 | Declaration ofPfevented sowing.) | ಈ eee 16 luly for | Government /
i Kharif and'84” Dec Ic.
Of I fe
offdatesior generation ne allan ತ] = ಸ
dionline/electronic 101111870೧ ೦. a ರಿ
‘remium jto respective ICs/and ಸ (|| Within 15 days of cufoft |“),
"0 details of individual © date for enrolment of =
“coverediloanee farmers on National ___ | farmers/debit of prem Banks/
Crop Insurance Portal by Bank") © for both loanee and Portal/
| | branches for which premi Non- loanee farmers 1.0 105.
| {|| already been remitted (CB: © | 31" July for Kharit and:
0೦೦೫೫೩೦೮), follgwed bys ಟ್‌ ಜಟ Rabi.
| Message Ser oats 'S) to ‘alllinsured rg
farmers tom Pé rial ue; F
ji | Cut-off daléyfor = tion 01 aq ಗ J, ಸ
| portal and Seco gnic remittance, | ಚ
12 \armers by.deuenated ine cance, > see ಭಟ ಸ್ಯ ೩೧ 0೦೯
ಹಾರ ಯ ಲ್ನ ಟಟ Premign ಆಗತಾ
ಜ್‌ covered 137710/ ಲ್ವ Crop "4 ಕ
ರಾ ey "cut-off date for uploading
ಆ eee,
Sees 1. ಆ ಎಟ್‌ el p for
Ny (ಟ್‌ armers and within
13 ಬಜ ಇ ONESIES |" 30 days for non 10276. 105,
the farmer's data on Portal. farmers i.e. 15” Aug for
ಇ Kharif and 15” Jan
* | for Rabi for loanee and
ಫಿ 31" Aug for Kharif and
31% Jan for Rabi for
Non Loanee.
| Cut-off date for CSCs/Banks/ ಲ
Intermediary/BCs to correct/update the Loli dr dN ಗರ
paid application intimated by ICs on ಕುತ್ತ oe
Crop Insurance Portal, | Seared ti
www.pmifby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಲಿ

--- Page 124 ---
ype
= ಸ “Action to be
[3 Activity Kharif Rabi taken by
Within 7 days from the
date of submission of
45 | Cutoff date for Insurer to accept the conuetiontondiation by i; ೩
corrected/updated applications. ಯ
Intermediary BCs .
Cutoff date for Banks/ICs to hand over | __ Within 7 days from | Banks1Cs for
insurance acknowledgment receipt acceptance of proposal through their
to the insured farmer. by concerned IC on Portal. iterinediarigs:
60 days from the cut-off
ಸ date for enrotmenvdebit
Cut-off date for processing of ಇ 4
17. | applications by ICs and auto approval | 4 Premum from farmers | el,
of application of insured farmers on |S: ಲಾ 2 ಇ
ಟು ಶ್ರ
hisuppoiting documents 1೦7 701925 |] | | ಚ. ಕ್ಲ ices
ofativance premium subsidy ಸಗ | “Bétore cut-off dateof | “Qa jstatey
50% of 80% of respective share of / ébroiment of farmers ಷ್ಣ Ts.
{’Centre/State in corresponding ¢ 1 | a “

Bl: ಎ... ಸ days of ಜು
೦1೨೫56 ೧ advance upfront premium al8)S ©" Ei Gut-off date ole
subsidy (First Instalment) i.e. 50% 0! 3, EYEON C6) Of enroiment| oo ಹ ‘
80% of respective share of Gentre/State ™ 22°'Me NH of tarners ail ಟ್ಟ
in corresponding previous season. 2 ಗ ಕ ತ (ಈ

ao Nk 1.4 ee a
Training and registration of field level” avoust | ae ary** | Grotind Level
Workers assigned for conduct of CCEs | | ಸ್ತು & Beas field

Miceporting of the same on Cipp § Wires {Stay ne | Sinetionaries!
i Si ಸತ್‌ ಸ್ಟೌ
| Registration of 1700/519217001 0( 1.2 sage
21 | representative ।ಮ್ಟ ಲ ್ಕ್‌ “State may ICs.
ಇ _ [of CCEs. ಇತ್ತೆ ಯ
early Kharif | early Rabi
ಈ * ‘crops. ‘crops
Upto 15"_| Upto 15"
Cut-off dates for identification and September") March
intimation of Areas (Blocks/Tehsils/ ‘These “These :
Taluks) for Major crops for carrying out dates may dates may MNCFC.
CCEs on 2 step Yield Estimation be fixed ರ,
8106, for each for each
ae StateJT, | Stato/UT.
www.pmiby.gov.in. ದ್ರಿ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 125 ---
123
S.No. Activity Kharif | Rabi ಜಸತ
= | Upto 15"
1
re ಸ Feb-15"
. September} March
“Those ಇದ್ರ; ಷ್ಟ jr
೩ Cut-off dates for identification and dates may | 01೨4178] me
23. | sharing of randomly stratified sample | Dei | cor aratoly Solem
locations for optimization of CCEs. Tous ೧ | Pepartment
stateut | MNCFC.
State/UT
and be fixed | and be
crop-wise ony He
for major/ ey
in for major’
gf [30 ೦1೦0೫. | minor crops.
8) Uploading of tentative schedule/date | ©
for conducting/@GEs (crop-wise/lU ೪150) | _ ಸ್ಸ
followed bySMSon one day notice | ‘Atleast 7 dayéibéfére | Concemed
through CCEsAgri-app. ICs are equally| © . tentative 6016/೦೯ ಡಾ| Department
responsible {0 liaise with district | | 60760000 CCEs. “Shof States/UTs
authorities/field workers to ascertain t ಸ to incorporate
the schedule. 11. "| the same in
6) Confirmation of the CCEs Via SMS on one day, | Notification.
| schedule. © | ‘notice through 110/೧... ಕ್ತ
17೧॥ 9 for lodging online complaint » Pr: ಅತ Coan |<
ಹ ದ ಮುರ ಪೂಜಾ |S
೬ Submissj6n of report of over insu | Atleast 15 0 before
¥ + | mis-reporting etc to the Governme date presctibed for ೩110
| the prescribed proforma. A ld approval 8
WRB )-> 2
|\Approval of district wise érop Wise ಗಯ wise 10091
| ‘Actual yield 6312 2೧೮ 00102610. 11161 ಗಳತ. Department
woo é fiotified by Slates/UTs | Of Slates/UTs.
ais Cut-6thgate for intimation! recone if 1 (ಯ Vics
clarification of any deficiency in Acty al ~~ Data from State/UT™ flagged on
Yield data, Ae | Nodal Departmentiif 20) |... 100.
ria Ms cadaye' of days of
Cut-off date for resolution by State" )"tlanification | clarification | sayy
29 | Government on clarification sought sought by | sought by Govern t
by ICs/ flagged on Portal. 105/ ICs/ ii
flagged flagged
2 on Portal. | on Portal.
Within 15 | Within 15
Cut-off date for raising bills/requisitions | gays of auto |days of auto
. with supporting documents for release | approval of | approval of
30 | of 2nd Instalment of premium subsidy business business ICs.
based on business statistics finalized statistics Statistics
on Portal/auto approval, finalized finalized
on Portal. | on Portal.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 126 ---
ಪ 2
| 5.01. Activity Kharif raw | “eee
Within 15 | Within 15
days of days of .
receiving receiving
requisition | requisition
Release of 2nd instalment of from ICs from ICs Golf ಜ್ರ
Government subsidy. based on | basedon | States/UTs.
business business
statistics statistics
finalized finalized
‘on Portal. on Portal
೩ ¢ j Within one week from
i. | | receipt of yield data /reply| Goll Portal
Auto approval of yield data. = i: | to clarification, sought by Tear
Ea © | {ies by State Goverment.
a A ad g bp two mo! ih a
ಈ 4 1. 1.| completion of CCESifromy
EA | (| ‘district wise crop Wise: |"
Arriving at technology-based yield data {| © specific cut off dates = | Seater |
jin case of inadequate number of, ghotified by States fora | ಆ 711700
| CCEs/substandard CCEs/ Not approved) notified crop/ After oft HOR Shae
iby States. ತ್‌ಾ (170719 of submission 1. 5]
| ಕ Sak Approval of yield for claim |"
i B P (1.1 | calculation by ICs, |... ತ
ಗ 4 oe A .oWhicheveris. earlier; Fie
1 | sharing dfdetailed information of dais) ಕ pe | 7
|| with bank branches &jother: Witbin 7 days ofappfoval|. Por
| Stakeholders fro Op, insur 14" aims 0)/1(ತ್ರ? | 11೧೯
“| Portal. ಟಿ < ig a ಗ ಕ ಬಂ]
1೧೦5 for Payment of clairty nator ICs have raised lg
- ಇ ಚಕ 176 bill of 2nd:nstalment,
ee “statistics on portal after
Payment of final government subsidy 0೦170101101 0! approval Gol/States.
"Seg |.-reconciliation for the
names season on NCIP.
Sharing of the list of loanee farmers to |
whom claims have been paid directly to
beneficiary accounts/ Direct Benefit Banks/ ತ
z Transfer (DBT) with banks for Farmers!
37 __ | 19007010007 of claims amount and to Within a week after State
display the same on their notice board receipt of claims. Goverteriontl ೨
In case of Non Loanee, reconciliation of CSCs.
claims, if required, to be done by ತ
enrolling agencies in consultation with
concerned bank/State Government.
www.pmfby.gov.in ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 127 ---
{2
A Action to be
| s.No.| Activity Kharif Rabi taken by
Within month of July
each year. Discussion with!
* [ each Insurance Company Nodal
| Evaluation of 105 based on performance] to be completed by Department
38 Evaluation Matrix for combined Kharif 25" July each year and | of respective
: and Rabi seasons of a particular year. final report to be State/UT
submitted latest by Government.
31” July to MoA&FW,
Gol by States/UTs.
Confirmation & Validation on Within 15 days from date of MoA & FW,
39 _| performance Evaluation done by Nodal | submission of evaluation | (10 ಸ
Department for combined Kharif and, | report by the respective ಗಳ
Rabi seasons of a 08ಗ01181/9೫7..... |. State Government. bic
16.5 In case th@tiBoff date falls on a public Holiday oris déclated as a public holiday by
the ಗ (111೦೯11013 is disruption] of ಕ್‌ ಕೊಳ್ಳ /shut-down etc., the
nextiworking day will belied as tip off date. Coneérned’States have to take
detisionyin this regard and send formal 1717731107 10. Golyportal team for
fectificationonNCIP. ©) ಉಓಒ | ಇಉ | =
"1 q*
16.6 & In cage of disruption of services due toypatural events beyond human control or
_’ technical/software/network issues with NCIP the subsequent dates may be
©’ extended by the competent authority of Government of India on the. basis of
© spegific written inputs from Portal DeVelopment and Maintenance ‘Agency.
= However due care has to be taken that such extension 6005 ೧೦! lead 10 2 moral
ಇ 1 hazard and misuse of the Scheme:and’Suitable measures should be put forth for
i the Same accordingly. {Vide letter no. . 13012/02/2016-Gredit 1! (71809) dated
16.7 Furtheh, in ease of three érops ten, a modified Seasonality discipline
keepingh ij View the one gar discipl 1 above, ‘shall be
16.8 ~ Keeping in view the specifi € of crop and scope for catastrophic crop
damage, SLECCI shall fix seasonality discipline in such away thatit does not
¥ encour ara rse_ selection or moral hazards and also ensure early
payment of claims to eligible insured farmers. Scheme also has provisions
೧೯ claims due to prevented, sowing and option to change the insured crop.
10/70, the State Government will take all necessary {ahs to ensure
ehrolment of farmers well withinushe ipulated time under the Scheme. No
reqi 1. ion for the extension ಸಜ ee cut-off dates shall be
consideted/ granted by MoA&EW,'Gol, once it is fixed and notified for the crop
season. However, preponementin ‘cut-off dates shall,be'considered on a case to
case basis. INany.State/ UT exlends the abovelSeasonality/ cut-off dates on
its-own, then Centrabshare of (premium.subsidy shall not be provided for the
concerned notified crops /areas.aou
16.9 It may be noted that, under no circumstance, will MoA&FW except under
_ Clause 16.6 or any State/UT extend the cut-off dates for enrolment of farmers.
However, in case the States/UTs decide to do so, it may be done only in
= agreement with implementing IC. In such cases, however no central
premium subsidy will be provided for the areas/farmers/crops which are
covered/insured in the extended period and the concerned State/UT has to
4 bear the entire subsidy liability for the coverage in the extended period.
{Vide letter no, F. No. 13012/02/201 6-Credit If (71809) dated 17th Aug 2020}
16.10 In case CCE data submitted through CCE Agri App is not approved within the
stipulated timelines, the same will be approved automatically and used for claim
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಲಿ

--- Page 128 ---
೨%
calculation. In case of non-submission of AY data by the State Government to
implementing ICs within stipulated timelines, Synthetic Yield data arrived using
Technology Based Solutions will be used for calculation of admissible claims and
subsequent settlement of claims to eligible farmers. The cut-off date for submission
of yield data to IC is normally one month after the completion of harvesting of a
particular crop. .

16.11 In asituation where total claims have been approved/auto approved, the company
shall be liable to pay claims within 2 weeks of calculation/auto approval of claims ~
imespective of whether ICs have raised the bill for 2” Instalment of premium
subsidy or not. Hence, it is advised that Insurance Company raises the bill for 2”
instalment of premium subsidy within the timelines. If the release of 2° instalment
is pending on account of non-submission of bill for claiming the said amount by the
IC, the timelines of payment of claims shall be counted from prescribed date of
release of data and not from date of actual release of subsidy irrespective of
paymentof2™ instalment of subsidy.» »

16.12 All admissible claims shall mandatorily be paid withip.the stipulated cut-off date
failing which penal interest @ 12% per annum shall, bespayable on admissible
pending‘claims beyond 30 days of uploading AY da bot fortal/provided in soft
copy by State Government subject td rélease of appligablépsubsidy by State

16.13 2 Since/the yield data is being finalized bane State Government, thie concemed

= State Goverment are advised to calculate the admissible peal interest rate and
& inform the concemed IC for pagent tne eligible farmers. Non-Compliance by
&  thel€smayalso bereported to Ge Hortakingfurtheraction, | a
7 8 Collection of Applications Ar dPremiumfrom Farmers: | i
47.4. | The ‘branchés of all scl rcial bal egiorial rural banks, and
ಕ ive banks shall a inches for enrolment ಪೀಟ .
G The primary agriculture crédit societi ched with cooperative bank branches
+ will enrolthe farmers through contemed branches of these ooperative bank. The
> concemedlead bank and Regional offices/ Administrative offices of Commercial
banks/RRBs will provide necessary guideliges:to the‘concemed bankibranches
_ and coordinate with: then fo; énsiré thatgell concerned branches compulsorily
©, generate the\payment challan and remit the consolidated farmers premium
"4 electronically/online through,payment gate sy on NE IP to the concefned ICs and
“submit/upload the consolidated requisite proposals/information in,the prescribed
format within the stipulated cUt-off dates and also ಸಂಜಯ of individual
coVered/insured farmers on ‘CIB’ Besides, for © coverage of non-loanee
farmers only, Insurance Company may also use IRDAI approved micro insurance
agents/ingurance intermediarieSwih the prior approval of DAC&FW. The details of
such agentsincluding manpowerand infrastructure deployed for the enrolment of
farmers under the. scheme. skiguid compulsorily-be submitted to the State
Government and ‘Gol=well. befgye (110, 5127 01 the season for creating their
credentials and subsequent-uploading of details of individual insured/covered
farmers on Portal within stipulated timelines. ಹ
17.2 Consolidated declaration/ formats to be uploaded/entered electronically by Nodal
Banks/Branches shall contain details about total insured area of the farmers, =~
number of Loanee and Non-loanee farmers enrolled, Total Premium Amount
remitted, premium remittance Unique Transaction Reference (UTR no.) and Date
of remittance as per the format provided on the NCIP. Banks are required toupload =”
the insured farmers’ data mandatorily on the National Crop Insurance Portal. No
other platform shall be used for uploading/submission of farmers’ data. Those
farmers whose data is uploaded on the NCIP shall only be eligible for Insurance
coverage. and accordingly the premium subsidy will also be released. In cases
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 129 ---
125-
where farmers are denied crop insurance due to incorrect/partial/non-uploading of
their details on Portal, concerned Banks/Intermediaries shall be responsible for
paymentof claims (If any).

17.3 In order to facilitate timely release of Government subsidy and remittance of claims

5 to the farmers, entry of detailed information of all insured farmers on NCIP is
essential for all bank branches/PACS/BCs/CSCs/Intermediaries/Designated
Insurance Agents and IC.

17.4 Farmer for one parcel of land will be allowed to enrol themselves from one source of
enrolment (banks, CSC, Insurance Company Intermediaries etc.) for the notified
crops. If the farmer is having multiple crops on that parcel of land then also he will
go to one source and submit one application for mixed cropping and mention
Proportionate area of that parcel under each crop.

17.5 Loanee farmers: 2 §

17.5.1 Whenever, banks sanction crop 1020/4600 forth gmsised crop in a notified
area, the crop loan amount to the extent of notified Sum Insured for notified
ಬ್‌ 2070800 of individual notified crop ೦81೦೩/168 farmers shall be taken
into consideration for coverage provided farmers have not:submitted their

joice:to opt out from the scheme, as per ತೀ. ಟು cipline. Based on
asonality of crop, banks should separately calculate the bibl ity ofloan amount
for caiprene during both Kharif and Rabi seasons based on the Sumilnsured and
declared acreage under notified crops. Disbursing bank branch/PACS will prepare
| statement of crop-wise and insurance unit-wise details of crop insulance with
ri premium as per the seasonality discipline. Loan disbursing bank branch/PACS
{__ shallfinance additional loan equal to the premium amount payable by farmer
3 © forcrop insurance. ಎ. [3] ಕ್ತ

17.5.2). Forit a. Sum Insured amount for a notified crop will be
: “| ___ notified, and uploaded on the NCIP for the concerned notified crop and s¢ason by
~ the State/UT. The total Sum Insured of 102706. 12770೯ forthe season Shall be
_ calculated accordingly. The cut-off date for coverage shall solely be based on the
“4. date of loan sanctioned / renewal of credit limit for the notified crops for the season
“4 and will be independent of actual date of disbursement/withdrawal of full or part
“Joan. Farmers i a [[ the KCC loans for Kharif & Rabi crops after cut-off
“© “date (renew/sanction period) for the season will be eligible for cover'under crop
insurance for the next/following crop season subject to the loan being standard
Joan and within cut-off-date of premium debit for the season. In order to eliminate
೫೧೮೨5 insurance and rationalize government subsidy; care should to taken to
ensure that only correct acreage under each ಣ್ಣ 1 application is
considered for coverage of notified crop and not the actual total acreage. Banks will
be 1801611೦ audit and inspec | on account of excess Insurance/leakages of

ಹ =. sue”
17.5.3 All enrolment agentes: including cooperative banks/PACS will provide valid
complete account details of farmers account viz. bank account details, Indian
Financial System Code (IFSC) code to enable direct transfer of claims to the

farmers accbunt.
೩
te 17.5.4 Any reporting of excess acreages under insurance in comparison to the sown
acreage will be liable for initiation of documentary and physical verification and lead
to administrative action if gross negligence and malpractice in reporting of
ತ insurance acreage is found at farmer's or enrolment channel's end.
ATS: Benefit of add on products viz., Prevented sowing/ On-Account Payment for
Mid-season Adversity/ Localized calamity will be available to only those farmers
who have paid the premium / the premium has been debited from their account
‘www.pmfby.gov.in

--- Page 130 ---
before the damage notification by the State Government for invoking this provision
for compensation. Hence, Banks must ensure that they debit farmers premium
next day after the cut-off date of opting out of loanee farmers, failing which banks
will be liable to meet the claim liabilities of uncovered eligible farmers.
17.5.6 Detailed example for Calculation of crop-wise Sum Insured (S!) forthe season for
coverage of loanee farmers is given in Table 3 below:
[J crop [erop2 [Crops | crop [crop5| ೧6] '
Total Land Ownership 8
(Ha) Kharif Rabi
Paddy [ Maize | Cotton | Wheat | Potato | Gram |
Actual Sown Area (Ha) 2 4 6 4
under the crop =
Area (Ha) declared in KCC at fat ||
application 2 a ih i 14 2 4 4
E § Khoaf @ 9 © oe Rabi
Scale of 2 $i Ei ಸ] i
Finance (NAY*MSP/Farm | 50,000 | 40,000 | 60,000 603, | ೫೧0 30,000
gate price) (Rs/Hay ೬ 1 1 88 ಬ್ರ
Total Sanctioned Sub limit Tak ono, foo ೧೧೮
1,00,000 | 40,000 | 60000 | 1,00,000 ೫! 30,000
‘Season-wise sub limit for ಹ ಸ್‌ ರ್ಸ್‌
Additional loan amount for "ak ತ 4
| onsumption and “Pe: BS 3
imaintatanee of Hescinery 4 ಡಿ. 1. 120000 ೯
ete (max. ಟ೧10 30%) ಶ್ರ ಬಡ ಪ್ರ 1 | |
ae wim YY. oe
#) State Negi HE ತ "ಕಿ BS ಗ
[77/7212 7 [oy ee > 4 Pe ತಾ
Si to'be considered for i eee EY) oda ತ
| Total 5110 be considerec Oek40 00 4 ಜರ್‌ ಕಿ
ಪಾರ ಜ್‌ Wee 0?
ಯ | O02 (ಆ ಯ 7
remium to be debited |= 5 499 | 86 0
Total Farmer's Premium | ನಿಶಾ ಇಗ ಸ್ಟ್‌
coverage
Balance Un-covered area
(Ha)* 1
Additional premium
ಬರದದ | sooo | oo | - | so | | |
Total Farmer's Premium ಈ
[| Measnianceye” | asco | 3೮0
Total Premium of Farmers
(both as loanee and 6,600
non- loanee)
www.pmiby.gov.in ಎ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 131 ---
|

*Note: The Area which has been 1011: ಷಾ a8 loanee farmer for the notified crop 7
can be insured by the farmer as a non-loanee farmer by depositing additional
applicable premium along with required relevant documents.

17.5.7 Crop loans sanctioned through Kisan Credit Cards (KCC) are covered as loanee

ವ farmer and banks shall maintain all back up records and registers relating to
compliance with PMFBY and its seasonality discipline and cut-off-date for

. remittance of premium/submitting of coverage details ೧೧ NCIP. Bank branch will
apportion coverage area among insurable crops, based on acreage mentioned in
loan application or on the basis of actual area sown as declared by the farmer
subsequently.

17.5.8 Bank Branches of Commercial Banks (CBs) and Regional Rural Banks (RRBs)/
Nodal Bank Branch in case of PACS under its jurisdiction shall submit individual
insured farmer's details along;with UTR details of premium online through NCIP.
Additionally, ಜಗ ekrahod ad sh oto from the Bank Branch/ Nodal
Bank in case of PACS under its iuped up shal be uploaded on NCIP mentioning
the relevant details as per prescribed format within elit offidates, as specified by
ಅಳತ particular crop and seagon, .. \

17.5.9 Different options for entry of details 1! enrolled farmers 011 NCIP ‘ate available for
bank branches in a meget rosie ‘and authentic manner. Bank\branch can
upload the details of re ೫. online application mode) Banks are
required to upload/enter the information continuously without waiting {Or last day
for premium debitanddataentry, 1 ೫ he

. 17.5.1 As anialtemative, sro rls Boning olution (6 ieee GIP has
81501 been successfully initiated, cae same flay be used’ by. Siieduled

Commercial’ Banks (SCBsV/RRBSID Central} Cooperative Banks (BCCBs)

. available ೧7/೦5 1೦೯ pushing the farmerstdetails.in bulk dirgetly out filling the
. farmers canjchoose ‘fot to be/en polleditipder the Scheme, by giving @ signed+

ಆ ಬ per prescribed formatémentioning’ histher ಟಟ

, Participate in the schemeS)any time dufing the yearfo the upcoming Season but

alleast 7 days before the cut bff date fdrenrolment/debiting ಟ್‌

received within 7 days of cuoff daté for enrolment, then farmer will be exempted

from, enrolment for the neXt ofpp season.) Farmers cai’ use available

communication mediums ‘for¢ommunicating their willinghess for “opt-out”,

however, they will ensure that tfigit willingness is receiyéd and recorded by the

bank within théaforesaid prescribed p ering at

17.5.2 Banks need to debit farmei’Ssharetofiprémium in the last 7 days upto enrolment
cut-off date. During this period, the banks may also prepare the final list of farmers
who have opted out and all eligible loanee farmers to be covered. .

ಇ

= 17.5.13 In case the farmer has submitted a declaration for opting-out from the scheme fora
season earlier and lately wants 10 get enrolled under the scheme for the same
season, he will be allowed to do so by submitting a signed "Opt-In" declaration as
ಆ per prescribed format mentioning withdrawal of earlier submitted "Opt-out"
declaration and his/her willingness to participate in the schemes any time during
the year for the upcoming season but atleast 7 days before the cut-off date for

enrolment/debiting premium.

‘www.pmiby.gov.in

Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 132 ---
\30

17.5.14 Declaration for both "Opting in" and for "Opting out” will have to be submitted by the
farmer in the same bank where they have their KCC/SAO Loan account. Formats
for “Opting 17” and "Opting out" are already circulated to relevant stakeholders and
are uploaded on NCIP.

17.5.15 Banks will ensure enrolment of all those loanee farmers who have Opted-in, or
have not submitted declarations for Opting-out upto 7 days before the cut-off date
for enrolment/debiting of premium. ಆ

17.6 Non-Loanee farmers through Banks and other channel partners:

17.6.1 All non-loanee farmers desirous of availing crop insurance shall fill up the
application form of the Scheme and submit the same to nearest bank branch/CSCs
orauthorized channel partner or insurance intermediary of insurance company.

ಕಕ್ಷೆ £45

17.6.2 Loanee farmers who Have opt Gut ofthe Scheme and want to avail crop
insurance, [೦೦೧5 can fill plication form ofthe Scheme and submit the
same thfough Bank branch, ‘CSC, directly on NCIP, tier authorized channel
partne’ "sel Hs S Of insurance compaiyy. Ifithis case the farmer

il asmor-loanee farmer.) a, %&
17.63. gin coke submission through Bank Branches and their BGS, farmers will submit
£ duly filled proposal form in ಜ್‌ ೫ of a CBIRRB/PACSIDCCB or
£7 designated BCs with applicable insura Femium amount and other documents.
{Bank Branch may, after completing verification of documents accept of eject the
© application. Premium shall be 26000161 by the bank branch preferably from the
farmer's operational accountin the same bank branch itself and the same Would be ನ
ಚ 5೦೧ 10 the conéemed Insurance Company withiniithe stipylated time for the
pul of sts ce cage: Yer day {of bank branch to |
complete (116 application of farmer. Inscase the farmers unable to fill the
application, bani oe ponsible for 1111/10 the application on
ಕೈ... farmer’sibehalf, So,that nota singlé farmer who desires 10 take crop inSurance
17.6.4 “\ In case of application Sbb ಕ 0೧೮509, thé farmer will be,fequired to
©, authenticate herselfhimself, using Aadhaar for filing up online application form.
$Having a bank account is essential for such cases. In this case,{CSC-VLE will
Upload all requisite/desired supporting d iments on Portal while filling yp the
application form on behalf of ta fear el ಸ wi equisite ee haha
೪೦೮/6]! be considered for insbranice coverage and CSC-VLE is responsible for
17.6.5 CSC/Bank BranthiPACS/desighated 70 91958815 will assist the farmers in
completing the insurance proposalfarm and provide necessary guidance. While
accepting the applications and premium, CSC/Bank Branch/PACS/BCs will be
4 ``. 79500751019 for verification of required documents, eligible sum insured, applicable
be premium rate, etc. In case of coverage through PACS, they will consolidate these
particulars and send them directly to respective Nodal Bank Branches which will, in ~
turn, submit application details online on NCIP and generate crop wise challan
electronically on the Portal, for the e-remittance of consolidated premium using,
payment gateway of NCIP within the stipulated time, to IC. Besides CSCs, other
Government/Semi-Government institutions/organizations including Post offices
are also proposed to be utilized for insurance of non-loanee farmers after their
integration with the NCIP after obtaining approval of competent authorities.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 133 ---
131

17.6.6 Non-loanee farmers could also be serviced directly by any designated agencies,
other authorized channel partners or insurance intermediaries, approved by the
IRDAI for the purpose and they will act as a guide and facilitator where in they will
advise such non loanee farmers about the benefits and desirability of the Scheme
and guide the farmers about procedures; collect requisite premium and remit

ತ individual consolidated premium electronically to ICs accompanied by individual
proposal forms and summary details in declaration form and upload details of each
. insured farmer compulsorily within stipulated timelines on the NCIP_

17.6.7 While accepting the Proposal and the premium from aforesaid designated agents,
other authorized channel partner or insurance intermediaries approved by IRDA, it
shall be the responsibility of IC or its designated agents to verify insurable interest
and collect the land records, Aadhaar Number, particulars of acreage, sum
insured, crop sown etc. and applicable contracVagreement details in case of
sharecroppers/tenant farmers. The designated intermediaries shall enter the data
of farmers on web-portail, remit the premium with consolidated proposals within 2
days. However, it is mandatory that the non-loanee farmers serviced by the
designated intermediaries should 17010 ಇ bank accafinttand Aadhaar Number or
Aadhaar Enrolment Number in order to get inSUredYand the designated
intggreggries will also facilitate remittance of the claim, ifpayable.

17.6.8 "44 buying crop insurance through CSCs or online, @TP/Aadhaar enabled
ಹ ಬಿ shall be construed as consent and 510201 ೧! 116 90010371 for
Jf coverage under cropinsurance. ¢ ° | %
ಕ್ಷೆ i Cea ie ಕ
17.7... Non-Loanee Farmers directly tolCs/Web Portal: \
ಬಃ 17.7.1 NorkLoanee farmer may sib insurance proposals pershally to Ingurance
Company withffequisite/desired supporting docuriients and applicable premium
has {9,be remitted electronially'to, concemed Insuyaiice Company and details of
A i Rifemittance Slips shot ಬ್‌ ಜಂ ಬ with application. ©
17.7.2 Non-loahee! farmey con ip ಜಾ on formsffor getting insurance
_ coveragathrough NCIP/C 17೮೮ App. B6r this, fase can fil up the online
“applica ಗ ಉತ NCIP (www.pmfby.gov.in)/Crop Insurance App and
“pay the requisite premilim through payn ಗಿ AS: oon as the ap| fication is
. Submitted through the ‘system, an acknowledgement receipt v ele
, along with a unique identifiéation number. Additionally, intimation will/also be sent
ough SMS on registered mobile number of the’ far ec Int 15 case, farmer
self will upload all requisileldesirdd supporting documents on Po rtal while filling
upithe application form: Applications will i » documén 5 would not be
con: eres for insurance. ೮೦೪೮18 2೧೮ farmer himselffhersélf is responsible for
proper filling of application 10/77... 5 .
17.7.3 It is mandat hat. Non-Loange farmers, personally submitting proposals to
Insurance ೧೦೧70೩7) 8170001 (CIP. should have insurable interest and submit
necessary documentary evidence a5 proof as decided by SLCCCI along with
Aadhaar Number or Aadhaar Enrolment Number. The insured farmer will lose the
premium and the right to claim (if any) if the material facts furnished in the proposal
form/application are found to be wrong or incorrect at any subsequent point Mn time.
17.74 Insurance Company retains the right to accept or reject insurance proposal(s)
within 15 days/30 days of receipt of proposal/application for Loanee/Non loanee
: respectively, in case proposal/application is incomplete, not accompanied by
necessary documentary proof, Aadhaar Number or Aadhaar Enrolment
Number/Slip or insurance premium the proposal/application will be rejected and
the Insurance Company will fully refund the collected premium to the
Proposer/applicant.
www.pmfby.gov.in |
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಲು

--- Page 134 ---
Ve

17.7.5 In cases where the farmer's application/proposal has been rejected by the
Insurance Company as per the provisions ೦! OGs, farmer's remittance for such
applications must be refunded back to the farmer's bank account with in 45 day of
closure of cut-off date for uploading of data/information by Banks / PACS / CSCs
/BCs/Agent, failing which the Insurance Company will be constrained 10 2೦೦೦0170.
application and pay claims as per normal process.

17.8 Option for change of crop name by the Farmer: .

17.8.1 All loanee farmers can change the name of the insured crop from the original crop

indicated in the loan application but such change should be submitted in writing to
the concerned bank branch up to 2 working days before the cut-off date for
enrolment and accordingly their newly proposed crop should be insured. Bank will
ensure that all standard loans (as defined by concerned Fis) sanctioned/renewed
for notified crops within stipulated cut-off date should be covered if the farmers has
not opted ouvopted-in wit ing 637% before cut-off dates for enrolmentidebiting
premium. In case the {pt (ag! debited earlier was higher, Bank/insurance
company,shall creditirefund the ಈ! esspremium to Gags account. In case the
premius debi ಜಾ] 3118 additional premium.

17.8.2 1111 al non-loanee fatm: Ss fick overed eth Mh before actual

Sewing? planting, based on advarice (100 planning will also have option to change
gthe ಇ For any reason if 8 farmer changes the crop planned earlier, he should
J intimate the change to Insurance Company, up to 2 working daysibefore the
_” cut-off-date for enrolment throught 1017707 channel such as Fls/channel
& partner! insurance intermediaryle asithe case may be, along ಗ
0 premium payable, if any, agcompanied with sowing certificate issued by
~ _ conébrned village/ sub-district ಜತ the State. In cael the premium paid .
11.೫೫೬ 010೧67, Bahk/CSCiInsurance 6 ny/Chafine! Partner will refund the
| § excess premitimias the case TA

179 1 Declarations/ proposalsiand debi ected premium uploaded by Banks!

"| PACSI/BICS after the cut-off dates sumimaril ied and the liability,

ಸ if any, for Such declarations shall rest with the concemed bank;(ICs for

intermediaries). Accordingly, the datalproposal ಗ ೧೧. the Nati Crop

Insurance Portal will a Nee pped after the applical -off date. However, any

dispute in the matter mayibe resolved aldhte State/UJjlevel, 1st point of reference

“\\ forthis matter will be handléd by Principal Secretary or designated higher authority.
any matteris still unresolved, it may be referred to Gol.

17.10 ೦೮೧೦೮/1166 branches of CBS, BREs and Nodal branch of,DCCBs in case of
PACSwill upload the details ofindividual insured farmers enrolled through them
like farmer's name, father's” faye. Ban k Account number, Aadhaar Number,
village, categories“ Small and MarginaliSC/ST/ Women; insured acreage, details
of insured land}‘insured crop(s)jetc. as prescribed in online application form.
available on NCIP“oP=CBS.inlegrationsmodile and submit the same within
stipulated cut-off date as per the seasonality discipline. However, any dispute in the
matter may be referred to the State Government as meptioned in Para 17.8 by the
concemed Agency/Bank for taking appropriate action within the prescribed cut-off
date for reconciliation of premium by banks with all details.

17.11 ICs shall be responsible to upload requisite information including necessary
documentation in respect of non-loanee farmers enrolled through channel partner -
other than CSCs and Direct enrolment on the NCIP within the stipulated date of
coverage of non loanee farmers. All intermediaries shall ensure that the
documentation is complete in all respect before accepting the premium. It is the
responsibility of the concemed 105 to 00190001217 any documentation of the

www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 135 ---
133
insured farmers from the bank/Fis/ intermediaries/ agents if necessary for
verification/acceptance of risk and also to facilitate the banks/ Fls/ intermediaries/
agents to submit! upload all requisite documents/information on the NCIP within
timelines.
17.12 ICs should also reconcile the details of individual insured farmers uploaded on the
Portal with the consolidated declaration & challan generated and consolidated
© farmers premium remittance through payment gateway of the Portal by each
Bank Branch/Nodal Bank/CSC/other intermediaries within the stipulated date and
any deficiency/mismatch may be reported to concerned bank branch/nodal bank.
The Bank Branch/Nodal Bank/CSC/Intermediary should further send/upload the
requisite information in respect of such farmers for whom clarification has been
sought, immediately within 7 days. If such rectification is not done/completed by
Bank Branch /Nodal Bank within the Stipulated period, |Cs may recommend to take
necessary action to 51219 Government! uhder intimation to Central Government
State Govémihent in sultation with SLBC/NodalAuthgrities may recommend
suitable”administrative ‘action against such defaulting branch/bank. However,
claims (iffiny) in such oles of such farmers shall be Bornelby the concemed
17.13 (7 ICs should verify and satisfy themselves about the coverage 0 farm: ets/ crops and
(” give/acceptance 10 the applications submitted by banks electronically through
NCIP. The insured farmer's personal details like AADHAAR Numbers,
Banking Details, Address, Mobile Nos. and all such details prohibited under
ಸ 1, 17/1 or Unique Identification Authority fia (VIDA!) Act. shall not be
| displayed/diSclosed publicly..IC will, sconce long «with farmer's =
ಬಃ | sharélof prefftiul receipt before approaching the Governmefit to release the final
_ instalment of subsidy ( ae cre
17.14 ~All ICSeulill_comp ಗಿ, 376, take necesgary action including
_._ approvalitgiection. of nee osal or policy ofgany farmey through National Crop
__Insurance Roytal withinStipulated date. After stipulated period for reconciliation &
‘\, obtaining further clarification from stake olders, all/pending
proposals/information of, insured/covered farmers uploaded on Crop
in ಆರು ಜ್‌ treated 25 approved and ICs will forfeit their co for
anys er_verification. However, any losses to: the Govemnment including
ex Senet ‘of premium, subsidy Pca ಟ್‌ verification of
data/infotma tio n of individual. ೧೧೫ gered/insured farmers.on crop insurance Portal
will be recoveted from concemedilCs only and suitable administrative action may
also be taken againstthe defaul ng iC —<_
17.15 IC to follow the process and protocol for processing of application, inception of risk
and processing of claims as detailed in the guidelines to rework or update the
claim amount. ತ
17.151 Loan was covered/premium was paid outside seasonality discipline.
- 17.15.2 Sown area was less than the insured area under a crop in a notified area
(refer Section 25).
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಎ

--- Page 136 ---
134

17.15.3 Different crop other than the declared/insured was sown in the land survey no.
insured.

17.154 ‘Survey number insured was not actual crop growing survey no.

47.15.5 Area insured is more than the total land holding of the farmer. .

17.15.6 Multiple insurance for same crops grown on same land with multiple insurers or,
through multiple banks/intermediaries.

17.15.7 Total Sum insured is more than the notified sum insured for insured acreage of a
given insured crop.

17.16 Penalty/administrative charges on ICs per application for auto approval and
change in status of appli [0೧,೦೧]! GIP willbe applicable on incremental basis and
will be notified separately by Gol Also prety will be applicable on ICs if approval
of applicatigfisis not done within stipulated time (referAiqmexure IV).

17.17 On aééepténce of application/ptopasal by ICs the a ledgement status is
{branches/CSC/Intermediafies on their login and an intimation is sent through SMS.

& directiyto the insured farmers from NCIP, Banks can download ledgement

© receipt from NCIP usini ir 100/7 efedentials and shall efisure distribution of

J Ackplowledgement 6 eachvinsured farmer within}7 days from the
| acceptance of applicati @co | ns 4

17.18 1... 116 will sendipolicy 1010 ೧ igithe form of inland Letter Card

| (LC)within 2 month of f ptance ofttorrectlupdated application

17.19 | AllStakeholders stig “ಡಡ. |

18 ೪ (ಇನ್ನ ಲ. ( .!,

18.1 3 _Wide Spread Calamiti ೦೨1 (based geason-end/yield):The eligible claims on
‘the basis of CCEs will be Considered only if notified trigger is breached (Refer
Para 20.2).The Scheme ope} ates. 9 p th ne sis of Area Appia The Defined

Areas for each notified crop forwides ಸ alamities, 1.6., the insurance unitis the
0೫20/1200 Panchayat or any offer equivatent unit ಇ ‘crops and for other
crops it ay. be the same Unie Unit of a size (ಗಟ than Vilage’ Vilage
Panchayat 10011 isto be deeided by the StateS/UTs. Claims for widespread
crop losses on the’ basis of “AfBa Approach will be decided by adopting the
Two-Step Yield 55017781101 ethodology as per the details in Para 20.2.
Department overseeing the conduct of CCEs will submit yield data as per the
cut-off date decided by SLCCCI, along withyesults of individual CCEs (conducted
through smart phone using CCE Agri App) on NCIP. The yield data will be = +
approved/uploaded by the concerned authority/State nodal department and made
available to the IC.

18.2 CCEs shall be undertaken per crop per unit area of insurance for notified ೦೦೧5", on
351610 scale, as indicated in Table 4 below:

www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 137 ---
IBS -
Level Minimum Sample Size

District 24

2 _| Taluka/Tehsil/Block 16

= 3... | Mandal/Firka/Revenue Circle/Hobli or any ae
other equivalent unit

F 4 _ | Village/Village Panchayat 4

“Note: Minor crops may be notified at higher than Village/Village Panchayat level.

18.3 Smart Sampling and Two-Step Yield Estimation:

For major crops across states and with availability of technologies, the following
method of Rationalization,of number of CCEs without impacting the quality of
sampling and estimation results will be adopted.

18.3.1 Smart Safipling of CCEs: Technology Solutions for fationalization of CCEs based
on 1೦90006೦05 selection of sample/experimental pilots based on crop health
condition’analysed through Remote Sensing and other: New Age technological
solitions Shall be used for rationalization ofnumber of CCEs,

18.3.2 _ (Two-Step Yield Estimation: Two-Step yield estimation shall be adépted in order

i tareduce the number of CCEs to be conducted based on the defined parameters to
asses the crop-health through proxy indicators like weather data, satellite indices,
{* etc, Based on the indices, areas (Block/Tehsil) will be categorized into normal, mild,
oderate and severe damage category. For areas with normal and mild Category;
: |, CCES will be conducted at a higher level e.g. Taluka/Block whereas for 70007215
/| __and Severe cat@gories CCEs will continuetobe conducted ಲ =
1 ರ್ಗ 8೪. ೫೪%. we. :
= 18.4 © Modalities for Conducting Crop Culting Experiments (CCEs): 3
a oath fle ain, the ತ credibility of CCEsas‘an objective method of
pat _ yield estimation, then odalities mentioned below will be followed: &
18.4.1“) To bring betfer transparency and confidenc® in the dala, States shall mandatorily
"ಸ್ಕಿ ensure 100% ೧೮55 through a mobile application speétally designed by the Gol for
ಣಾ this purpose. \o other application shallibe used for feporting of conduct of CCEs.
“{CCE plots shall be. chosen using smart Sampling technology for selected crops and
Tandom sampling for other crops and the secrecy of the selected plot should be
Uaifitained until the CCE is actually conducted in order to’ rule out moral
hazards. States may continue {6 estimate the crop yield by \dopting General Crop
Estimation, Survey (6೦85) fofsestimation of productionas recommended by
agriculture Statistical commissiofier. While conducting GCE for Loss Assessment,
either through Sitar Sampling of ರಂಗ Sa) ; States shall maintain same
procedure and methodology for. conducting CCEs as adopted by National Sample
Survey Organization (NSSO) or State Manual for Crop Production estimation for
the remaining activities except the selection of experimental plots under
the Scheme.
ತ 18.4.2 In order to provide proper benefits to the farmers and to compensate them as per
near actual loss experience, crop should be notified at the lowest level i.e.
Village/Village Panchayat as detailed in Para 7.2.5.

18.4.3 State shall strengthen the audit process of the conduct of CCEs, with necessary
checks and balances. Digitizing the CCE process including geo-coding (providing
the latitude and longitude of the CCE location), date/ time- stamping and taking
photographs (of the CCE plot and CCE activity), is a must for all CCEs.

www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಎ

--- Page 138 ---
1೨6

18.4.4 Wherever external agencies are proposed to be used by the State Governments
for conduct of CCEs (i.e. CCEs are outsourced), it should be given only to the
registered ‘professional/accredited’ agencies with adequate experience in the
agricultural field activities/yield estimation. It is mandatory for these agencies to
follow the digital protocol as mentioned in the Para 18.4.1. Services of such
agencies may also be utilized for assessment of post-harvest losses and losses *
due to localized risks.

18.4.5 District level Steering Committee: State Government shall compulsorily ~
constitute a Steering committee in each district to plan, conduct and supervise the
CCEs for yield assessment and to provide reports of yield data to the State Nodal
department. The Steering committee should be headed by the District level Head of
the Department/Organisation responsible for conducting CCEs and District
Agriculture/Cooperative officers, representatives of NSSO and ICs as members.

The Steering committee will compulsorily associate the representatives of ICs,
NSSO, so that they shallbe well ಟಕ about each and every activity and obtain

the requisite information about CCE planning, schedule for conducting CCEs,
selection ef@GEs plot, sharing of requisite form 2, faffB.etc. and individual CCE
result ete. The Head of Serj ajcomnite will be ಕ್‌ for uploading all
requisite jgformation on NCIP.i.e, CCE schedule, indivigual'GCE report etc. and

ದಾ imparting training to field functionaries responsible for conducting, CCEs. Steering
ಸೆ will compulsorily send all their proceedings /‘thinutésyetc. to District
level Monitoring Committee (DLMC) and Nodal officer of the State. Concerned ICs

£ shall compulsorily deploy one well conversant official at the office of the Head of the
# Steering Committee fort least 3 months of the harvesting period#for better

& coordination and obtaining the information of CCEs including CEs Sch sdules etc.

e Concemed ICs shall nomifiate their representatives in the ste éting committee well
@ in advance and also shure ea details, contacts, email (6. to the States/UTs ಈ
ಸ ಜಾ t DAC&FWis intimated It is theg@sponsibility of this designated

officer, of 1೦.10. ebtain led schedules of gach CCE from the

___ concetned State Gover ‘the Block/Citgle leyel within that district. :

District Administration willprovi Uisite space/and 10015165 at their office for the

4 insuran¢e |company official?) THe ape official ೧7 16 will provides mobile
್ತ number ma id fortelevant communication inthis regard’ State will provide the

4. granular information to this, nominated IC official only; Any delay! ಜು of

\\ information will be communicated bythe nominated official only in the concerned
A. district to theisteering committee at the@arliest 0011/10 later than 7 days of the
A. due/scheduled date. Thekcopy of thelreminder to the steering committee will
“Scompulsorily be forwardedite nodal @epartment of the States &/Gol. Steering
“committee may also form Eleetronic/Social Media groups for quick’communication
ಹ 1111 111111 1 ೦4. 10
ತ್ವ as ಇಟಿ Po 4
18.4.6 In instances where required rilmmber of CCEs could not’be conducted due to
non-availability of adequate cropped area, adverse: ér conditions/inadequate
infrastructure 6te»,the yield estate for such, n be generated by using
methods such as (i) adopting yield estimaterofnext higher unit, or (1) adopting the
yield of a neighbouring 13 witt*imaximum correlation. Priority of applicability of
aforesaid two methods should be notified by the concerned States/UTs in the
notification itself, failing which the option of yield estimate of next higher unit would
be considered. However, this clause shall only be applicable in unavoidable
situations and shall be limited to only minimal number of IU units. Itcannotbemade =~
a general rule to avoid CCEs. Special efforts should be made by the States/UTs to
conduct adequate no. CCEs in all notified units in order to provide appropriate
benefits to farmers, However, if States failed to submiVapprove the CCE data ~
within prescribed time then claims will be settled based on the yield data generated
using technology.
‘www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 139 ---
133
18.4.7 Modalities for Conducting CCEs for Multi-Picking Crops:
In case of multi-picking crops e.g. Catton, Chilly, Tobacco, Tomato, Pea, Fruits
(Mango & Apples) & other crops of similar nature, the following procedure shall be
| followed:
18.4.7... States/UTs need to, in the beginning, specify the number of required picking for
ಜಾ each crop both forirrigated and un-irrigated (rainfed) conditions. Ideally it should be
as per the NSSO/indian Agricultural Statistic Research Institute (ASR!) defined
guidelines. If it is not available, States/UTs in consultation with local Agriculture
Universities and concerned ICAR centre may identify the required number of
pickings. However, as number of actual pickings depends on climatic conditions
etc.,hence possibility of further pickings of each picking should compulsorily be
recorded in CCE app and no. of actual picking willbe 672117 such cases.
18.4.7.2 If the required number of CCEs have been done but the required number of
pickings (03701 been done, then for those experimdflSpstatistical factor needs to
beusedio extrapolate yield to aleul (ಅ the final yield.
18.4.7.3 Sich statistical factor (propo of pickin wise yield) needs to ಸಂ puted from
sWell cofducted CCEs (with the required number of pickings) {rom the same Taluka
separately from Irrigated and Un-itrigated (rainfed) condition: At least data of 5 well
“> condutted CCE should be used [ ing thefactors, 4. 3
|) An Example for Yield Calculation for multi-picking crop is mentionedin Table
1 Picking] Picking | 13 | Pickir ಜ್‌
.. ಬ ಇಟ ಇ
| __TAverage “Sa | os |e | 178 (026874 |
Factor (Totakyield/ |_ 6.373" | 23287. 1.287 [a
E6 (only Picking) | 4 [| [| [3327
೬... [eoton|E7 tonty +8 2704 | 4.2 [475 |__| +d sare
೬ EB (only HE SPickng) 33717135 [ಇರ |_| _s.705"
‘Note: 8! The factor has been computed as the ratio of average total yield and average yield
upto that picking.
. www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೦

--- Page 140 ---
138
18.4.7.4 Incase there is dispute regarding large deviation in picking dates, the average
picking dates should be computed from well conducted CCEs at the Taluka level.
Accordingly, the picking dates and numbers will be adjusted. For example, if the
average picking date for second picking in a particular Taluka is in December and
one experiment has shown first picking in December, it will be considered as
second picking.
18.4.7.5 If there is no proper CCE (with required number of pickings) even at the Taluka -
level, it should be considered that no CCE is available and the procedure defined
in yield dispute SOP (Standard Operating Procedure) should be followed, i.e. yield
should be estimated using technology based approch. In case the
crop has withered and there is no further possibility of having further pickings, the
same shall be recorded compulsorily in the mobile application/CCE-Agri App while
conducting the current picking experiment, In such cases, no multiplication factor
may be used for calculationjof AY. :
All claims yjllbe settled exclusively on the basis of CGEshased yield data available
on the NCIP;The AY Data al Crop-IU level shall be ಎ synchronised with
Pc Pabrough online CCE mobile application. Once the AY. data is available on
CIBj the same shall be verified and approved by the concemed 01510051019
authorifies. For those experiments which were conducted offlinefwithout mobile
application, the AY ೮012, 21070 with the location information shall be uploaded by
2 the concemed District administration or State nodal department on the Portal .
£ However this shall be an exception to be exercised in rare cases and such ೮೦೯5
& ~ should not exceed 5% of the total CCEs. Actual Yield data through any other mode
|! other than the NCIP shall not be. accepted. If the yield data is not uploaded/ ಭು
& synGhronisedapproved within pre-defined cutoff date /by the concerned
| __ authority/depSriment, acon ೧7೦೮10, may jinfetm thefState Government
10611 Gogemment w limetolakeaporora (Baction. .. r :
18.4.7.6 IG should 0 veh come ಹೋತಿ ‘the GCES, the digital i : ges of
4% the CCEs and relevant da ate requisite format (eleétro ಜ್‌ by the
© State Government e n areal time ಲ ಲ್‌ should be. formally
.- given/shared, with nominal ಸ ಟ್ಟ “of ICs inthe Steering greets
sufficiently 19, advance without fail tofhelp theriycoordinate with the field
«functionaries and 1710012617 manpower accordingly. For this: purpose, the IC
shall permanently station ofie representative in the Steering Committee at the
concemed district office of the dept/ agency mandated to conduct CCEs for proper
daysto"day, liaison (Para 18.4:5).{State shall provide necesSary space in the
೦೦೧೦೨೦೮ office & facilitate Shating of information. However, State may not
provide aliy.documents such as Rarm-1, Form-2 etc. to thé ICs. The ICs may verify
such documetits.on a sample basis only by visitingtheir office. The State should
provide facility for physical. verification of documents like Form-1, Form-2 etc. on
request of ICs at their premises ೫737 sos
19 Dispute resolution regarding Yield Data/Crop loss:
19.4 During the earlier years of implementation of PMFBY, various types of yield
disputes were observed, leading to unnecessarily delay in the claim settlement.
Following chart shows the procedures to be adopted in various cases. 6
www.pmiby.gov.in (5)
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 141 ---
sy
Chart: Procedures to be followed in different yield dispute cases
,
Less number CCE Not CCE done Less Term of Moisture &
| orNo,CCE || Done as per |} but yield || number of yield Conversion
the abnormally || pickings or different factor not
IRandomization}| high or low ||pickings not} | | (e.g. paddy given/
Plan compared to ||. timely yield vs rice assessed
general crop yield)
condition
Quality Follow the NSSO
Yield at Checking of protocol in 1೧ rare cases| Factor to
higher unit] | data as per |[ Follow the 184.73 State is be used
or adjacent SOP. If 507] ಪಕ್ಷ: allowed to
1U (18.4.6) Quality Ok a 4, change, with!” Picking plots
data may aa | ಡಕ ‘Proper, not same
accepted a | Actual Yield || ustificational! every time
PelseeCE+ | FAL [005/01 [| it disburse (|
é| ನ | a. = ment is hot
rf ther Yield with all agenéy |] done “OK. if inthe
| | ರಿಕ ಸಸ! = | Same field
& | Vas if, ditandomly
19.2 Wherever the yield estimates .fepo IU level are abnormally 10/೦೯ high
= vi is the general crop condition in consultation with’ State Government
can take u ious products (e.g lite based Vegetation Index, Weather
parameters, ಜು) 101001 luding statistical 1641, crop models etc.)
. to confirm’ yield estimates. If Insurance Company witnesses any
anomaly/deficiency in the actual yield data (partial/consolidated) received from the
State 170111 ಜಾ halhb@ brought ipto thejnofice of concemed State
department, within’7, days from date of rééeipt of yield data with: specific
. ~_observati marks providing,in eo the Gol and anomaly, if any, may be
"A. fesolved inthe next days: by the Head’ of the Nodal Departmentfor State
Government. If the disputes not resolved the matter) may be referredio the State
Level Technical Advisory Committee (STAC) for 6130110 resolution (Gonstitution of
STAC is defined in Para 19.5). In cas © the matter stands unresolved even after
examination by STAG, it may. be e seAlated | to the Technical Advisory Committee
NG) (central level committee) feng with al [11616301 6೦6೫೮೫5 including
minutes of the 17706070 3/7ಐ೧೦ 40. discussion and report of the STAC and
Departmental Head. Referencetg TACs n 06 made thereafter only in conditions
specified in Para 19.7.1. Howeves data with anomalies which is not reported within
7 days will ರು (1110 the IC. 716/91010001 of the timelines defined
above shall also be applicable '{p.the-attUal Yield data being provided by the
concemed State department in batches, i.e. Crop-wise-District-wise lots of data
and timelines for each batch of data shall be counted separately/batch wise.
| Unnecessary delay in the finalization of yield data will attract penal interest on due
ಇ claim amount payable to'the farmers as decided by the concemed Departmental
ತ Head in the matter.
19.3 The existing TAC comprising of representatives from the (DES), DAC&FW,
. MNCFC, NSSO, IASRI, will be further augmented and constituted under the
chairmanship of Additional Secretary, DAC&FW and additional members on
case to case basis may be drawn from various organizations namely, relevant
institution under Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR), Indian Agriculture
Research Institute (IARI), National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC), Space
www, pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೦

--- Page 142 ---
140
Applications Centre (SAC), Central Statistical Organization(CSO), Insurance
Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI), Reserve Bank of India
(RBI), National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development (NABARD), India
Meteorological Department (IMD) or any other such organisation.

19.4 The TAC shall review all technical matters related to the execution of the Scheme. *
In case, the matier requires further focused deliberations, the TAC will refer the
issue to the Technical Agency (TA) (refer Para 19.7.2). The TA will compulsorily
take the inputs/reports/relevant information from the concerned State Department ~
and IC and may also opt for representatives of other organizations/experts (if
required) with the permission of chairman of TAC and follow the procedure as
defined in the SOP,

19.5 State shall also constitute the State Level Technical Advisory Committee (STAC)
ona similar pattem to resolve disputes. The STAC may be chaired by the Principal
Secretary/Secretary of the concerfied Department with members from State
Agricultural University, State Remote Sensing Centre, IMD (state centre), DES,
any ICARggéntre in 116 state, NSSO. etc. Howeveriain case of disagreement
between(the‘concemed parties, the case may be referredito the TAC along with
recommendations and findings for further deliberation/exar iMation and decision.

19.6 JTACITAISTAC shall deliberate and éxamine the subject matter and indicate their

views {decisions based on statistical/technological inp and“ether related
AY scientificand technical parameters as detailedintheSOP. ©, |?
19.7 4 TheSOPtodealwith yield dispute cases is as under: FS
19.7.1 a When to use this SOP: This SOP will be followed only when there is aidispute “
© __ aboiitthe crop yield values between the State Goyemment and IC and in the case
Fe elt ಗಗ resolved at the. He: ಜಸಿ nent level and STAC
| (೧೩/೨ 19.2) ೨761125 been ತತ ೮71೩1 Government Technical Advisory ie
a ommittee'(TAG), which in turn decides that the Mattejneeds to be refetred to a
ಸ Technical Agency(TA). The cispite ತ brought to the ATAC, only in the case,
where ail, of the following Conditions are satisfied. AlllGases not 1311೧0, 17. these
"| _citeria shall be decided by the head stale dal Department with the approval of
. 4, ~ competentauthority ಗ್‌) (3 final and binding on all concerned.
+ There iSimore than 25% difference between the yield estimated,by the State
ಸ್ನ 60%9ಗಾಗ೫7೩೧17೦ (ಯ್ಯ. ತೆ a (ied F
_ There is-sufficient.documentary. evidence that the CCEs‘have not been
ಯುಗ ಬಜ ಸ ಬಟ ಮದು
20% area ofthe IUs faite pariclarcropinthe Cluster.
+ The matterhas been considered by STAC. ಕ್‌ೆ vot be resolved at the
+ The IC has already carried out the technical analysis of the data in
. consultation of the State Government or in collaboration with
೩ Central/State/Empanelled agencies and has used satellite/model/weather
data to supportits claim.
19.7.2 The Organizations to which TAC can refer the case: The organizations can be
the Central Government or autonomous organizations, which have requisite
capacity to carry out such analyses, such as: MNCFC (DAC&FW), SAC Indian
Space Research Organization (ISRO), NRSC (ISRO) and other similar
government organisations (e.g. IASRI, IMD, IARI etc.), as decided by TAC.
Hereafter, these organizations will be referred to as Technical Agencies (TA).
www.pmfby.gov.in.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 143 ---
= IG)
19.7.3 Data to be provided by State Government: = =
ಆ All CCEs data of the contested area, in digital format, (preferably Excel),
along with photographs and other collateral data, as collected during CCE.
The CCE data should ideally be geo referenced.
+ Village level crop area estimates.
be + Long term (atleast 10 years) data of crop yield at GP level (if not available, at
least at Taluka/block level) in digital formal, (preferably Excel).
ಆ Long term (at least 10 years) data of weather parameters (daily or weekly) at
GP level (if not available, at least at Taluka /block level). The weather
parameters should cover at least, rainfall, rainy days and temperature, in
digital format, (preferably Excel).
+ Any information about pestidisease aitack, hailstorm, cyclones, inundations,
heavysainfall ora other natural made disasters in that area.
5 eee |
: ಆಹೋ। caries a y Siotcai Mes sin,
19.7.4 Data tobe provided by Insurance Gompany:
f j |
ಫೆ Data of the co-observed CCEsicol led by ICs in digital format) (preferably
ie ‘Excel), along with photographs her collateral data}as colleéted during
+ | Data of weather observatorie: jaintained or sourced by ICS, in the
ಎ g tontestedarea. |!
-  FReponfet the Lc ಗ [ಉಕ (ಇದ್ದ 209 Conjfany to
+ Detailedreasons: yi ing perceived as‘contested.
Oe OM i eG ig ಟಿ =
“+. AnyVAV data/output col fromthegontestedarea,
“\ (This data “Shall only ‘be, considered Where government approved’ agency /
“)yempanelied agency has béen used 02,10, 1
19.7.5 Analysis tobe carried outbytheTechnicalAgency:
ಚ ಬ ಚ ee
Among. estes aven below, any.8 steps should be followed from (a) to (ರ) and
any ೦೧೮೨೮1೦೦ ‘should be followed rom (e) to ( |; The®steps in (0) and (h)
a) Statistical analysisyof. thejCC E yield data: Basic Statistical Parameters
(Mean, Variance, Coefficient of Variation (CV), Range, Standard Error, etc.)
Scatter plots, Test of Normality (Shapiro-Wilk test, Quartile- Quartile plot,
Whiskers box plot, Skewness and Kurtosis, etc.). Ital$o needs to be checked
whether CCEs were done using the proper sampling design. Village level
ds crop area may also be checked to identify reasons for lower number of CCE.
b) Analysis of Weather Data: Weekly Rainfall Deviations (at least at block
. level) or at grid level using gridded or satellite based data, Dry-spell
Occurrence, Temperature Anomaly, Soil Moisture Analysis (either from
satellite or model data) and any other available weather parameters (related
to crop condition), either from ground or satellite data. Another rainfall based
‘ index, which can also be studied, is Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI).
www.pmiby.gov.in ಸ್ಹ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @
| |

--- Page 144 ---
14>
SPI can be developed using IMD gridded rainfall data or National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration Climate Prediction Centre (NOAA CPC)
rainfall data. However, while using gridded data (either from satellite or
ground stations), appropriate resolution should be used at appropriate level.
For example, 0.25 degree data should be used only at the districtlevel and not
at the block/village level. High resolution weather data can also be sourced =~
from weather companies.
c) Analysis of Long-term Yield Data: Previous 10 years’ yield data (atGP or”
Taluka level) analysis should be carried out to assess the ups and downs. The
analysis should include yield ranges, mean yield, standard deviation, and CV.
d) Analysis of Other collateral data: Other data or reports, which should be
considered, include Crop Weather Watch Report (DES, DAC&FW),NSSO-
Supervised CCE data, Forecasting Agriculture Output using Space
Agrometerology and!Land Based Observations(FASAL) programme crop
reports, drought ಯ reports prepared by MNCFC, Market arrivals
and prices data for 2-3 years (http://agmarknet@gy.in/), crop condition data
available on VEDAS platform  (https://vedas.Sac.goy.in/vedas/), Disaster
173/5 : 8೪818015 on pia platform, IMD weathembulletins, weather
10772107 / forecasts available on MOSDAC (hitpSi/wwiemosdac.gov.in/),
* eter PERE EE: % %
“e) Analysis of Vegetation Index from Satellite Data: The vegetation index,
2 which can be used fofethis purpose are Normalized Difference Vegetation
index (NDVI), Normalized Difference Wetness Index (NDWI), Vegetation
ತ “Condition Index (VEl);,Temperature Condition Index (TCI; Vegetation Health
ಸ “index (11), Estee ation Index (EVI), etc. To 661145 these indices,
F | “satellite data of a jaté resolution should be.used (Table 6). ಕ
70066: Types (ಸಿ, 36 for vegetation jlidex derivation for
BA different levels'of analysi Pg J Soe ಸ
| Spatial Wei ge 41. : y Ei Toe BS
Anal Resolution (28) oExamples'of Satellite/Sensor . 4’ .
"a Resoliféesat 2/2A: Linear Imaging Self Scanning Sefsor
Village evel | & 30m OF | (Liss) IM45.8mn)L1SS 11 (23.5m) Sentinel 2 MSI (40 ಗ);
ಸ್ಸ |... | Rapid 8/5 (6.5 17)/5707 5 HRG (6.10 m), Landgat 8 OL! (30m).
Block/Tehsil ‘PX 45,69 ಟಗ 2/2A: LISS Ill (28.5'm), Landsat: OL! (30
level ಶ್ರ m); 5670742115 (10 m); Resourcesat 2/2A: AWIFS (56m).
“> | MODIS (250/1/500/7) or any other Satellite.
However, wherever long:term=Salellitesdata is needed, Moderate Resolution
Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) (250 m/500m) data canbe used, but it should
not be used for village level information. Ideally for deriving crop specific vegetation
indices, crop maps should be overlaid on the data. Generally, for few major crops,
crop maps are prepared under FASAL project of DAC&FW. Crop maps canbe =.
generated using either optical or microwave remote sensing Synthetic Aperture
Data(SAR) data of appropriate resolution. Wherever, crop maps are not available,
agricultural area map should be used. Agricultural area map can be.
| obtained from the Land Use (LU)/Land Cover (LC*) available with NRSC or
SRSCs. For assessing NDVI or NDWI deviation percentage, data of latest 2-3
years should be used or at least data of a normal crop year should be used.
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @®

--- Page 145 ---
143

f) Crop Growth Modelling: Yield loss estimates can be made using crop
simulation models such as Decision Support System for Agro-Technology
Transfer (DSSAT)/ Info Crop, etc. Remote sensing based semi-physical
modelling (e.g. Photosynthesis Efficiency Model) approach can also be used

. for crop growth analysis. However, care should be taken to use well
calibrated and validated models and also models should be run in at higher
spatial resolution, at least 5 km. Crop Simulation models should be

. assimilated with remote sensing products (e.g. crop map, phenology, Leaf
Area Index (LAI), etc.)

g) ldentification of Outliers: All these above analyses can be used to check
whether there was any reason for yield deviation as presented in the CCE
data, Then a yield proxy map may be prepared. The Yield proxy map can be
derived from remote sensing vegetation indices (single or combination of
indices), crop simulation model output, Remote sensing based semi-physical
models or an integration of various parameters which are related to crop yield,
such as soil, weather (gridded), satellite based products, etc. Whatever, yield
pro: be used, it is the responsibility of 11,417 to record documentary
ey Bend trom their or other's published work) thatthaiyield proxy is related to
ahie particular crop’s yield, Then the IU level yiekis heed to be overlaid on the

@ yield proxy map. Both yield proxy and CCE yield'éan be, divided into 4-5
| ~ & calegories (e.g. Very good, Good, Medium, Poor, 1/011/1200/)-10/110/0%೮೯1॥307೮.

(” _ iglarge mismatch between yield proxy and the CCE yield (moréthan 2 levels),

ಕೆ the CCE yield for that canbe considered, as outliers. Se

4’ h) [Computing Yield for the Outliers: For the 105, where the ‘yield was

ಲ “considered as outlier, the yield may be estimated by developing empirical

ಸ ' [700615 (statistically si pie with low Root Mean Square Error (RMSE)
Ebetweenslong-term vial | data (31,101 levelpor, if 701 available, higher
tadministrative level) and weathe and remote'Sensing based indexdata. If

ಹ 'ಗ್ರ೦೦೮ quality long-ter ಹ of if the mddel is not significant,
when using ti ries data*for an adiinistrative upit(AU)

( ndal/Hobli k 616), the madel can,alsp be developed using

thebprevious4-2 ye tt ae theflUstadmigistrative unit, Within a

i dist Using)ithese . yield fof the concerned year should be

. ಸ esti |. The 6517191091 01 on ಸ್‌ ಗೋಲ! significant models) (p-value
ಸಃ < 0.1) Will be co sidered. RMSE 0! the Yield/ estimated 1707] 116 model

5 estimates, in comparison the actual historical yield should preferably be

less than\ 30%. The inal yieldgéstimate will be a combination of CCE

ಸ್ರ (1911810908 experiments available) estimates and technology,@stimates. The
“A, estimates will be combined by giving weightage tg the inverse of the errors of
Athe.cstimates: If the model was not statistica#y Significant, the average of
e&timated yields of 20190611005 should be used (Note: Each and every

case'may have specific arid:special cause related.to a problem and may no

be considered as a referents for any other ೧961) Each time, the stage of the

crop ಹೋಗ ಲಿ prior iffportance e.gs0 mm rainfall at vegetative stage

and at harvest or postsharvestistage has different impacts; a small amount

rainfall having devastating wind-speed have different impact than high

amount of rainfall having calm or no-wind. The TA needs to take into account

‘ all these factors to consider each of the cases as an individual and special

ಸ case.

19.7.6 Time required for the analysis: The analysis needs to be completed by the

ಸ concerned TA, within one month of receipt of all mentioned data from the IC and the

State Government.

19.7.7 Funds needed for the analysis: All the analysis will be carried out by the TA, with
its existing resources. However, if there is any need of procurement of priced data

- www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 146 ---
144
or services, this may be funded by the concemed IC or the State Government,
whichever organization has brought the dispute issue up to TAC.

19.7.8 Support to Technical Agency: The TA, if required, can take the support from the
experts of SRSCs and SAUs. For this the State Agriculture Department will issue .
required instructions to concemed experts/agencies. A concerned officer of the
PMFBY TSU will coordinate between the TA and the state. y

19.7.9 General Suggestions: Though this SOP identifies the procedure for yield dispute
resolutions, in the long run, it will benefit the scheme and the farmers, if there is no
dispute. The following suggestions are made to avoid dispute:

+ The States should conduct the CCEs following the standard procedure
(proper sampling plan) and collect the data using CCE-AgriApp only.
oh ಓಕ [||
+ States need to ಕಣಣ ಟಂ technology for more accurate crop yield
+ _gSlates'should develop ಗಗ resolve dis} at the State level by
ಹ vsig® the techniéal’ support from State level Gtganizations, such as
&  Agficuttural Universities, 51 Gs, arid ICAR Centres Jocated in the State,
ಕ್ಕೆ WeealiDoffce,ete..” 1. | Ey ನ
ತ... 1116106 should proactively, ಲ್ಷ017101/96 with the States for supervision of
go. Bmeicss oY ae technologyto supportithe loss .
ಚ assessnient ಹ್ಮ ನೆ By. 4 4
ಆ. ಇ. ಓಂ Yd in DA... ithe State dndtheICs. |.
20 . Use of Innovative Pra V/ ¥ieldEstimation: ©
20.4 “Rationalization: of CCEs (Smart Sampling Technique (SST)/and CCE
vo Alf.” f
tis observed thatcrop yield € ಸಸಂ! problem in the insurance fits is increasing
and thereby reducing the effi 1 of the ಜಯ್‌ sci Disputes on
the ಆಗ of yield data 15 @ 12706, in the effectivesimplementation of the
Scheme. Tethnology interventio# are highly recomménded from time to time to
bring improvemelits.in the crop Yield assessment’ Under the revamped PMFBY,
implementation of sma Sam }technigiles is mandatory for (a) improving the
CCE field's selection and (b) optimizing the number of CCEs. Through smart
sampling, the CCE fields in each insurance unit can be selected based on the yield
ಸ proxy index, thus accounting for the spatial variability in crop yield. The primary and ‘
the unique advantage of this new technique is achieving improved distribution of
CCEs in the notified insurance units thereby leading to more representative yield
estimates compared to conventional random sampling approach. Crop condition me
and crop risks occurrence, if any, during major part of the season are taken into
account while developing a-priori yield proxy. The add-on benefits of smart
‘sampling include; (a) notification of CCE locations only ೩ few days before harvest,
thus minimizing moral hazard issues and (0) identification of CCE locations '
www.pmfby.gov.in.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೦

--- Page 147 ---
LES:
through digital map base, thus minimizing human bias/preferences in locating the
fields. Digital database of CCE facilitates linking of CCE data with satellite data and
different thematic datasets. The two important input data layers for implementing
smart sampling are crop map and crop yield proxy map in digital form in moderate
೪ tohigh spatial resolution.
20.1.1 Crop map: Satellite derived accurate crop map is a pre-requisite for smart
- sampling. Crop mapping accuracy depends on many aspects, which include (a)
Spatial resolution of satellite data vis-a-vis the field size, (b) the spectral bands
being used for classification, (c) the classification algorithm (d) the cropping pattern
(mono cropping or mixed cropping) and (ಅ) granularity and quality of the ground
truth data used in analysis of the satellite data. Both commission error (e.g.
non-paddy areas represented as paddy) and omission error (e.g, paddy fields are
represented as non-padd /\ ೫೬ affect the efficiency of smart sampling, Satellite
data of 10-30 m spatial resolution and crop mapping accuracy more than 80% are
recommenifei for generating crop map for Smart Serie
20.1.2 Cropyield’proxy map: y 14 | to capture 191191 variability of
yiGld within the 1U largely dete 21 efficiency of Smart santipling technique.
‘Goverment of India has developed a protocol for yield proxy. generation (Protocol
& of Smart Sampling for Crop Cutting Experiments, Septemb: 019). The details of
& yield! proxy generation using ia weather and ground) data are
provided in the protocol. The yi xysdefined in the protocol is available in
© — 10-30 m resolution, ಜ್‌ for yield ಆಖ 1-000, 25 11007 in
೩ © various pilot studies. States mai ‘at method for yield proxy generation. The
ಶ್ರ yieldproxy laferhas to 06 06702೧6 i , preférably 30 days and not later than
. ನ 20 das befére (3೧/0 ನ್ನ್ನ ತ]
20,13... Selectio of CCE,fiel G00 be Corregistered with the Yield
‘Proxy Map! and ovettaid.on it, (Density slicing based df £6 quantiles (divide the
frequency distribution ಟು ಯ ಸ ಬಾ amped out for the yield proxy
ಜ್ನ ೨16201 611] ct/block (62556೦ are taken if stratificationts done at district level and
), 4 classes are tnade if stratification Is donéat Block/Tehsil level). 111 Boundaries are
“overlaid and foreach 1U 2-3 thajorcla #28 ate considered. 4 locations (primary) are
‘fandomly selected from theS@ cla ತ್ಯ, proportionate to numberof pixels under
eat class, For each point 2 0,101 points (secondary and terary) are selected
omithe'same class, 35 reselye For ea ich point, the latitide/iongitude, class
categoryGP name, Taluka and ದ nam es are to be:provided to the SRSCs.
Field survey*humbers: correspor ding 10 each leva tion are to be identified by
SRSC using cadastfalmaps and provided to:thié field functionaries at least 5-days
before harvesting. Wherever*cadastral map is not available, geographical
locations (Latitude and Longitude) of the field is to be given to the field
functionaries, who canlocate using any navigation App~
ಷ್ಟ 20.1.4 Crops to be covered: Smart Sampling Technique (SST) for CCE fields selection
may be implemented for many crops like paddy, wheat, jowar (Rabi), mustard etc.,
wherever satellite-based crop mapping and multi-index based yield proxy layer
5 generation are available (under the FASAL project of DAC&FW). Generally, it is
recommended for main crops like paddy, wheat, jowar, mustard, cotton etc., since
the procedures for generating the above inputs are fairly operational. For other
‘ crops, methodologies are to be standardized and the States are advised to
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨ |

--- Page 148 ---
J
144
undertake such Research & Development (R&D) studies for standardization of
approaches so that a greater number of crops can be brought under the purview of
smart sampling.

20.1.5 Variable Methodology: Selection of right data and right techniques of analysis for
crop mapping and crop yield proxy generation determines the efficiency of smart
sampling. One methodology with one set of inputs for all regions and crops may not
work. Diverse crop growing environments may need using different methods for .
different regions. One has to check for the robustness of the methodology by
applying certain quality parameters such as sensitivity of crop yield proxy and
accuracy of crop layer using ground truth or secondary data.

20.4.6 Smart sampling for CCE Reduction (CCE Optimization): The CCE
Optimization studies ut by, the Department have shown possibilty of
reduction of 30-75% of GCE numbers by adoption of technology. Accordingly, CCE
optimizatignii@an be folla Similar crops as in ಪ್ರಕ Sampling (e.g. Paddy,
WheatgRabi'Sorghum, | ind Cotton). For COR lization, similar crop
mapiand gield proxy as defined in (Para 20.1.1) can be Used: Similar stratification

proceduré also may be followed. However, in this case number ofselected CCE in
AGP ranges between 2-4 depending on number of major clusters in the GP. The GP
& level eld is not simple ayerageof CCE:yield, but area weighted average of the
ತ್ಲ CCES. While computing area jeighted average, the CCE data of other points in
| ಇ block are considered: Suippase a block has 4 classes 01016 index. Out of
& these 3 classes are m GR. So, the GP can ೧210 3 CCE points. The
| example inthe following a How GP yield will be complited. -
.. Exampleo a vel yield ಲ್ಸ ಜಾ? CEE data
- | Yield Class in |Areawithithat| Ai jerage Yield for the yield
rs Gk ಹಡತ AD ಹಣಾ
Se 7. ಕ್‌ Sy ise = Y1x0.3+ ¥2x0.44|
1013 100% | 1೬ ೬... |” Y3x0.2+ Yax0.1
20.2 Two-Step Yield Estimation:: oe .
One of the major requirements of the Scheme, is carrying out a large number of
CCEs (at least 4 per GP, for a major crap), for yield estimation, which is the basis for
claim computation. However, conducting such larger number of Crop Cutting
Experiments (CCEs) has become a very cumbersome task, considering the shot *
harvest period within which all CCEs have to be completed. This may also result
compromising the quality, rigor and accuracy of the CCEs. In order to overcome,
this, the Gol is trying to implement various approaches with the help of technology,
such as, i) smart sampling under which CCE sites are being selected based on
satellite remote sensing-based proxy yield parameters. Another significant
: approach which the Govemment is proposing 15 to adopt the Two-step yield
ಹ... ಶ್‌ @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 149 ---
142-
estimation. The basic idea behind the Two-step yield estimation is to
assess/categorize the crop loss incurred due to adverse climatic conditions, pest
infestation etc. based on technical parameters (remote sensing, weather, field
survey etc.) and carrying out required number (as defined in PMFBY) of ೦೧೯೪
¥ wherever the situation is 'severe' or ‘moderate’, Wherever the situation is ‘mild! or
‘normal’ based on the technical parameters, reduced number of CCEs (as defined
for a higher administrative unit) are to be conducted. In other words, the required
. number (4 per GP) of CCEs will be carried out only in the places where there is a
situation of crop loss (severe or moderate) and limited number of CCEs will be
carried out where the situations are ‘mild’ or ‘normal’. A typical example of similar
approach is followed in drought assessment where weather, satellite and ground
parameters are used to assess the drought situation and then ground truth for loss
assessment is carried out wherever the situation is ‘Moderate’ or ‘Severe’, All
States are following this procedure for drought declaration. In order to implement a
similar approach in the Two-step yield a Mee there is a need to identify the
technology, parameters’ separately for different cli induced disasters, pest
infestation ete! which have been notified in the PMEBY-Also, there is a need to
generate threshold values of different parameters to Gategorize a situation into
‘Severe’ Moderate’, 'Mild' or ‘Normal’. Thus, in a normal ctop season, CCEs will be
conduct ed al aggregated level, say block/taluka, ssi he CCE derived
fc yield at block/taluka level represents the average yields ofthe insurance
units (Within it. If the seasonal condition are not normal, ie. crops*have been
{> exposed to natural calamities like flood, drought, abnormal weather events,
1... pests/diseases etc., then CCEs will be conducted as per the existing procedures
and defined numbers, in each of the affected insurance unit. Incase, a blosk/taluka
% is identified haying some part in Moderate/Severe situation, while rest\part in
; Normal situation,.a ಹ ಗರಗ ಜ್ಯ {will 113೮ 70೦1796 number of
. CCES.at IU [evel ಹ್ಮ et 91600 Esa blockhtaluka levelgwhose
average yield will, be used for all the Normal 1116, The Two'step yield estimation
approach will be followed, only when tel 1G Unilis below Block/Tallik level,
ie. VilldgeleP or Mandal Revel irclafFlobli 0 any other equivalent unit.
The mostimportant elemei ಒಂಟ ಯ timation procedure are:
\, + Identifiéation ofinsttance units atfegted by crop disks during the season.
Time of occurrence of efop risks jinpacting the ‘ime! ಜರ್‌
- 20.2.1 Identification of the Insura ಜೂ (WUs) affected ayferop risks: Using
multiple ‘indicators such as rainfall; dry spells, temperature, satellite-based crop
condition, ‘Satellite derived thernatic maps, ಬ.
decision rules Willsbe developed, and summarized in to a look-up table called
“Deviation Matrix (DM) QD the ೧೮೫3107 Matrix, the Insurance Units (IUs)
can be classified into Severe’, ‘Moderate’, ‘Mild’ or ‘Normal, with respect to any
particular risk. Indicators and Deviation Matrix are specificto risks and regions.
| 20.2.2 Crop risks covered under Two-Step yield estimation:
ತ್ನ The following crop risks are notified for implementing the Two-step yield estimation.
° Drought
+ Prolonged Dry Spell
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 150 ---
(
3. Floods ) £ g
ಕ Cyclones
| Pesvdiseases |
> Hailstorm (ifitis forlarge area)
+ Unseasonal rains .
° Frost
Data required for generating indicators, decision rules and Deviation Matrices for
the above risks will include, but not limited to,
+ Weather data - rainfall (amount, intensity & distribution), dry spell, humidity,
temperature (Maximum, ‘Minimum afd Average), wind speed, cloud cover,
etc, atdaily weekly interval for the curtent periodRdpormal values
+ 4 ಮೊ ಂ್ಪ : 1[ ಸ
ತ್ರ "36000116 derived crop map, flooded area map, crop condition indices
eg prem Derived Agro meteorological parameters PS
[೨೧06120 Disease infestation related field measurements |= .
: . VByarotoigical ರ್ಜ ous Stondie, etc.)
pee be Gide a i) WL. 's
©, Granularity ofinput data plays ‘ani impoffant role because the analysis has to be
“carried out at Insurance Unitscale. 11200 of w ಗ cea ta ble to use
‘Standardized Automatic jc Weather Station (AWSY/Aulomatic Rain! Gauge (ARG)
os data; Satellite data of moderatespatial resolution 10-50mis st ggested.
Crop risk: covered under T\ 1೦-೪1೯ sp yield estimation: 0
Risks / Perils oS" Indicator Parameters
+ Rainfall amount
+ Dry spell i
+ Soil moisture
* Satellite indices .
* Crop area sown
Prolonged Dry spell” | * Hydrological Parameters (Ground water levels,
Reservoir storage level)
www.pmfby.gov.in ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines ೦! ೧11೯81

--- Page 151 ---
< ee
5.೯. Risks / Perils Indicator Parameters
+ Amount of rainfall
+ Topography
ಅ Flood + Soil type
* Crop Type & Stage
. + Satellite Data
+ Rainfall Amount & Intensity
+ Wind speed
Cyclone + Landfall area
* Satellite Data
* Crop stage
| *Dual-pol Radan Measurements
Widespread B Sed ee 8 Be.
Hailstorn [ಲ್‌ opr 007 |
ಕೊಂ |, “Rainfall Intensity & Duration *S
ಕ ifa + Satellite derived Rainfall , %
| "We ather data = cloud cover, humidity and temperature
. f Disease ಬ ಯ condition before and postevent
*Note: The Government, in 2016, broughtou the Groug ft mayibal. The same approach, as délined in the
drought mative, should be usédto categoriZbd severe, modefate, mild ಮ ಟ್ಟ ಲ್‌
202.3 “\croprisks notcovered under Two ಕೆ 56404000:
Wo step yield estimation will Only b fi the claiffis based on end
easoni yield data on an area-based approach. The following sisks"are not covered
a sf
ಎ tendeiges. 8 ee
. + Loss due to attack by Wild animals.
೩

= ‘These risks are generally localized in occurrence and indicators are not readily
available to capture the impact. Mobile app-based field data provides better
evidence on such risks and Insurance Units may.be categorized using such data.

. 20.2.4 Time of occurrence of crop risks: Timely identification of risk-affected insurance
units is very critical to ensure the preparedness by the field functionaries for timely
execution of CCEs. It is recommended that the affected insurance units be
identified by at least 20-30 days before crop harvesting. That means, crop risks

. www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨ |

--- Page 152 ---
_ SD

occurring from sowing till 30 days before harvest are only accounted. Abnormal
events like cyclones/floods or unseasonal rains that occur a few days/weeks
before harvest are to be included in the CCE plan. Identification and notification of
insurance units in such a small time window would be a challenge. Hence, there
should be some back-up plan with all the States to deal with calamities/risks that
occur just before crop harvest. Considering the nature and time of occurrence of ವ
crop risks, a quick decision has to be taken by the States on CCE plan, whether to
go for requisite number of planned CCEs at IU level or group of homogenous IUs
1೧೧1೮ areas for conducting less number of CCEs.

20.2.5 Crops to be covered: The two-step yield estimation procedure may be
implemented for all major crops by defining the set of input indicators for assessing
the effect of crop risks.

20.2.6 Exceptions:

+ Widespread post-harvest losses will be out of the ambit of the Two-step yield
800 calamities, as described in these OGs willbe sessed at farm level
ಘ್‌ Sby the same procedure 25 described in the 01೮61೧೮... ಯ್ಯ

202.7 {Key Cénsiderations: ; i

& +  Golhas formed Techn ical sub committees to prepare the detailed protocol for
F 11761001075 and threshold to be used for each risk/peril.| The same\protocol,
ತೆ 07೦೮ available 511010 be used by the States. The protocol may be reviewed
be riodically with thé advancement of technologies. % 3 |
ಸು sideting, that conducting study-at Gram{Panchayati{t ೧) level isia time
ರೀ otc iy 10 be completed well ahead of the CCE
a Vithii the 1" Step of thelprocess, the fact th at more than one crop may grow
: in afilU, with variedgrowthyeycle and thussifferent tesponse to variols perils,
ಛಿ ~«sholild be takenthto 35000 fon ಕ್ಟ es
4, + Sufficient awareness, st ould be ,generated dmongst farmers. and other
a stakeholder about theschahge inithe process'of estimating cfp yield and
ಆ eT OM ee eg
ಚತ ARabiserepan ey ini aie de & ಜ್ಯಾ ತ್ತ ay
ತ Itis notiGed that in some instantes in States/districts, ared insured is much more
than area: sown figures hence, \esmpulsory use of Réiote Sensing Technology
(RST) satellite ithagery, digitization of land records needs to be done to minimize
the area discrepancyahor.thigy detailedsprocedure has been laid down in
Section 25 of this document. |

20.4 Direct Yield Estimation through Technology:

20.4.1 For addressing the issue of reliability of CCEs in terms of their accuracy, 7
representativeness and timeliness, innovative technologies such as satellite
remote sensing, drone, modeling, AWS/ARG, Artificial Intelligence & Machine |
Learning (AI&ML) real time transmission of data etc. should be utilized. This will
ensure accurate assessment of yield and timely payment of claims to farmers.
Various studies carried out by national and international organizations, including

| MNCFC, NRSC, SAC, Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and
Food Security (CCAFS), International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), International
www.pmfby.gov.in ೨

Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 153 ---
151
Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), World Bank, etc. have shown that the use.
of satellite, weather, soil and crop data, along with images/video capture of crop
growth at various stages and accurate sample CCE data collection can improve the
yield data quality/ timeliness and support timely claim processing and payments.
| 20.4.2 States, with the support of national centres as mentioned in Para 20.4.1 as well
above, SRSCs and SAUs, need to carry out adequate number of pilot studies for
improved yield estimation using technology, as mentioned above, and small
: number of good quality CCEs. When a significant correlation is observed
between technology estimated yield and yield estimated through
CCEs, States and IC scan use these technologies in estimating the crop yields at
U level, subject to the satisfaction of both States and ICs about the accuracy of the
yield estimates, to service the claims.
20.5 Concerns in Yield Data Quality and Timelines for Data Reporting:
43
Ba, he ಕ
20.5.1 It has been observed ‘that the: normal (CCE process being followed by the
States/UTssfor, estimating eld is lacking in reliabilityeaccuracy and speed, which
affects clali’settiement, There is a need for real time, dbod quality and reliable
actualield-data for which mandatory use of smart phones /Randheld devices has
tobe doné for cameo: location of the CCE and for o1 ibe transmission of
data on'NCIP through CCEs Agri-app. RST using satellite, 300 610705, weather
Bata, model etc. may alsa be used for the purpose of increasing accuracy and
ff speedot vets estimation through CCEs. ಕ್ಡ %
20.5.2 /) ae ಕ of using td ಶ್‌ process specially purchase of
"smart phones/handheld devices and use’of technology (RST, Drone etc.) will be
{/ _ shared between Central Government and States / UTs on 50:50 basis, wherever
| | necessary, subject to a cap of total funds to be made 21218010 by Central
ie Goveimment,foh this purpose based ಗ i ae cost ofiprocuring handheld
i di ismart phones ai errela ted 00: (RSTjDrone, ete: Ey
20.5.3 Ifthe CGE derivedyield is notp vid by [ಅ States within the stipulated time
' lines then) technology derived ‘Syntheti@ Yield] data (i.e. crop yield
(|. estimated/simulated using satellite derived indices, crop growth simulation model,
“weather dala, etc.) wil be Used airgs settlements {Such Synthetic Yield data
of a crop willbe compated with sponding historical yield data (derived from
|, CCE) for indemnity assessment. Synthetic yield data}is meant for the purpose of
“timely settlement of claim&\when CCEsderived yield data availability is delayed.
“Synthetic: yield or technolegy derived yield is generated ಬಂ agencies
designated by the} (೧೧೫೧ . 11169011111 convene the meeting 011110 7ಸಿ00011501015ರ
1075 purpose with the conceried State Government and thé IC to finalize the
technolog ed claim calculation for that crop. If the TA‘ >fecommends, the Gol
will send arequest letter fo MNCG (Mahalanobis National Crop Forecast Centre)/
Other Desigated Agency (e.g. SAC; NRSC, IASRIAIMD, etc.) for the calculation
of synthetic yield{model-based) Wield) for thakcrop. After the meeting of Expert
Committee and the MNCECLO weeds Signated Agency will share the synthetic
yield within one month from the final receipt of required input data from the State
and/or IC and the claims will be Seite based on synthetic yield provided by
MNCFC / Other Designated Agency, Meanwhile, the Insurance Company should
send a reminder to the State for sharing the crop wise AY data with them on NCIP
= ICs within one month from the completion of CCEs for that season. Also, the IC
should send the second reminder to the State for sharing the AY data with them
within 15 days before the cut-off date for initiation of technology-based claim
ತ calculation given by the Gol to the State. If, the IC fails to send one or both the
reminders to the State for sharing the Actual Yield (AY) data, then the Gol will
impose penalty on the IC. Similarly, the State Government must share all the Actual
Yield (AY) data with IC within the stipulated cut-off date as per the PMFBY
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ |

--- Page 154 ---
|=

guidelines or within the extended cut-off date given by the Gol to the State. Incase,

State Government fails to share the AY data with ICs on or before extended cut-off

date, then the IC will send an intimation letter to the Gol. Thereafter, the Gol will

convene the meeting of the TAC constituted for this purpose with the concerned

State Government and IC to finalize the technology-based claim calculation for

that crop. ಶ್ರ
20.5.3.1 Synthetic Yield Data: In the event, the CCE derived yield data is not provided by %

the States within the stipulated time-line, Technology derived synthetic yield data

will be used for claims settlements. Synthetic yield is computed based on empirical

or semi-empirical models. Synthetic yield data will be provided by the

MNCFC/Other Designated Agency. Calculation of synthetic yield data involves

analysis of satellite data, meteorological data and other data and therefore there

will be financial and logistic requirements. The State Government shall bear all the

cost of the synthetic yield estimation.

20.6 Technology Fund: A ‘technology fund ‘will be created by the Gol wherein
resources,shiall be allocated for meeting 50% of Gols$fiage/100% grant in various
technalégicdl’ interventions Undertaken by the State“Government funds as
admi§sibig> The fund stiall be augmented with excess farmets,share of premium

| suffendgfed by ICs due to application 6f Area Comedtion ‘Factor (ACF) and
penalties imposed on ICs on account of poor performance by\ICs as per the
| a outlined in Annextre-lV. 4
ge ಡ್‌
20.7 {Support to the States anes for technology adoption: Revamped PMFBY
£ relies more on technology-based solutions for enhancing efficiency and objectivity
{ _ initsimptementation. Forfinalizing the best possible ಇ corresponding
to the provisions of Os, states and ICs need the support of Technology ಎ
Instititions. |: involyes “a lot of preparatopygwork bygthe States/C for
implementing the'revamped:scheme. In this connection, Stategare advisedto take
| the 5100011 0/1/1೦೯೦, SRSCs, National 17511030 SAC 1580), 1185೦ :
©... (ISRO).IMD and CAR dertake the analysis/Crop maps and satellite indices
» that arebeing geterated at MNCEC under varigts projects 1169 FASAL, National
“| Agricultite Droughtassessmentiand Monitoring System (NADAMS), Coordinated
“4 Horticulture Assessment and Management using Geo-iNformatics (CHA MAN) etc.
“can be made availabléto: States by. MNCEC for the/ptirpose of developing the
©. technology interventionsarhis Id avoid'duplication‘of work by States/ICs.

20.8 QWraining and capacity bu ding: PMFBY rely largely on technology-based
“products and 56 rvices fortefficiency, transparency and objectivity in its
implem entation. All e stakehglders should, therefore create necessary
infrastcu re, data collection Systen 5 and manpower for technology adoption. In
this connection, States and IGShave to be given ar training for better

understantigg of the new gbidelines and developing the methods for
implementationestheretore, Traiging and Capagity:building programmes will be
developed by DACEFW with the Spport of MNCFC, SAC, NRSC, andICAR.

21 Assessmentof Claims & Claim Settlement:

21.1 Payment of Claim Liabilities is the responsibility of concerned IC. The IC shall |
therefore take all the necessary steps to take appropriate reinsurance cover for
their portfolio in order to safeguard insureds interest. In case premium to claims
ratio exceeds 1:3.5 or percentage of claims to Sum Insured exceeds 35%,
whichever is higher, at the National Level in a crop season, then Government will
provide protection to ICs. The losses exceeding the abovementioned level in the

crop season would be met from equal contribution by the Central Government and
the concerned State/UT Governments. The claim settlement protocol under basic
₹ ೧೦೪೮೯೫೧೮ all other add-on coverages are explained in details as below:
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ©

--- Page 155 ---
153
ಕ್‌ Yield toss due to wide-spread calamities under Basic Cover: =
21.2.1 If AY per hectare of the insured crop for the Insurance Unit (calculated on basis of
requisite number of CCEs) in insured season, falls short of specified TY for the
season, all insured farmers growing that crop in that IU are deemed to have
ಕ suffered 2 shortfall of similar magnitude in yield. PMFBY seeks to provide coverage
against such contingency.
. ‘Claim’ shall be calculated at IU level as per the following formula:
Threshold Yield - Acutal Yield
TX Sum Insured
Threshold Yield
Where Threshold Yield (TY) for a crop in a notified insurance unit is the average
yield of best 5 years from past seven years multiplied by applicable Indemnity Level
forthat crop as notified ಸ season
In table below, assumed ied of wheat for the last 7 yearsis giVén forinsurance unit
ry of "X?. Calculation 1 Rabi 201 5-16 seasonis given in Table 7 below:
ತ Yield Sem, | a | eS
ತ |... Theyears of 2012-13 and 201445havethe lowestyields. | ¥
"| Total of yields of seven years is,22350:Kgiha and thatof twojlowest yield years is
ಫ್ರಿ 35501 1(0.(180031750).1118151019, according to theprovision, average of best ೫
> five years éxcluding two Bucs yield years will be(22350-3950-18800/5) fe. 3760
ತ್ರ 21.2.2 “\ District Leve} Joint © We ) wil 96 constityled which wil logy after the
“S, invoking of On-Account Payment Under mid-season adversity, prevented sowing,
21.3 ‘Prevented /Failed Sowing alld Prevented Planting / Germination Claims:
21.3.1 Insurance cover will be provid 1 (ರು case of widespread incidence of
eligible risks (Para 5.2.1) affecting crops in more than 75% of the area sown in a
notified unit: stage of sowihg which is up to 30.days from the start of sowing
butno later from culoff date for enrolment, leading to the total loss of
crop or in a condition where farmers are not in a position to either sow or transplant
the crop.
ಕ 21.3.2 Eligibility Criteria:
ಇ
೯ 21,3.2.4 This add-on cover will only be available if this ೦೦೪೮715 notified by the State/UT.
21.3.2.2 Notified 105 will be eligible for "Prevented Sowing/ Planting” pay-out only if more
ಸ than 75% of Crop-wise, normal sown area for notified crop in the IU experienced
unsown/prevented sowing/germination failure during the sowing period due to
occurrence of widespread incidence of eligible risks. Normal sown area of the
crops will be the average of actual sown area of the preceding three seasons.
. www.pmiby.gov.in ೨
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 156 ---
‘ Jr
154
21.3.2.3. Only those farmers are eligible for financial support under this cover who have paid
the premium i.e, the premium amount has been debited from their account before
the damage notification was issued by the State Government for invoking this
provision for compensation. Banks must ensure that the farmers premium is
debited within 15 days from the sanction/renewal of KCC/crop loan of all eligible
loanee farmers and before the cut-off date for debiting the premium.
21.3.2.4 The provision could be invoked for a specific crop or a group of crops in notified IU, +
by the Nodal Department of the State Government on the basis of the
recommendation submitted by DLMC supported by evidence/weather reports,
other proxy weather indicators and the joint loss assessment survey subject to the
fulfilment ofthe conditions specified in these guidelines.
21.3.2.5 The eligibility of claim settlement shall be decided based on the outcome of the joint
loss assessment surveys carried ,out by the representatives of IC, District
Administration/State Government Nodal Department and Farmers. In case of a
dispute/disagreement between the stakeholders regarding the quantum/extent of
loss gory by the. Joint Loss Assessment ‘committee, the crop loss
asses$mepi/estimation for the eligibility of the claims iltke done using technology
ded 0005 such, i weather/rempte-sensing iigicesnalong with loss
assessment surveys of Joint Committee with the weightage of 70% : 30%
Aespectively for the final’ assessment and evaluation ofthe extent of loss.
(Acceptance of the technology driven extent of loss ‘will be’ binding on
= allstakeholders. ae Be ಸ್ಯ
21.3.2.67 — STAC in coordination with State Remote’Sensing Application Centre will conduct
E yieldestimation and assessment of ಶೆ as mentioned in Para 21.3.2:5 based -
© on the protogofideveloped by MNCFC. STAC maystake the help of MNCFC if
21.3.2 “The amount payable would be 25% ೮. gfOss total Sum Insured and the
| insurafige Coverage shalligetterminaléd Farmefs can fiavs the alternative to sow
|... shorter dation, resistant crops and avail cropinsurange,on such crops within the
,<enrolmentperiod forthe same. « & ೫
21.3.3“). Proxy-Indicators: indo 81 difor loss intimation could be rainfall data,
‘\ other weather indices, Satellite imagery, Remote sensing indices, drought
“fassessment reports of the MNCFC and crop. condition reports by district level
‘State Government officials, sUppartetipy media reports and field photographs. The
State's not ಗಳ include ಟಾ 2 sine broad list of
indicators to heusedinthisregai 8 Ba ieee: ae
21.3.4 Lossassessment procedure: = wt
213.41 The States/UTs would?notify. the Crop*Calendar indicating crop-wise and
agro-climatic zone or district wise cul-off dates by which, this provision could be
invoked. However, these dates should not be later than 30 days from the time of
normal sowing period and no later than 15 days from the cut-off date for enrolment
of farmer. Beyond this date, this provision shall not be applicable under ~
any circumstance.
213.42 The DLMC will recommend invoking of prevented sowing to the State Nodal +
Department. State Government Notification will only be issued by the concerned
| State Nodal Department after consideration and validation using the available
proxy data. ICs may also provide input to the State in this regard with substantial
evidence for consideration within the stipulated time so that claim of ICs may be |
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 157 ---
156
verified by them.\f IC makes such a case then DLMC/State Government 15 bound
to get it examined within a stipulated time of 7 days and in case State Government
finds that Prevented Sowing is not applicable then they should inform the IC
accordingly along with providing cogent reasons for the same.

» 21.3.4.3 If it is fell that the prevailing conditions precedent triggers for invocation of
prevented sowing have been breached, the Chairman, DLMC on his/her own
accord or on the directions of the State Nodal Department, may convene a meeting

2 of the DLMC wherein the weather/proxy indicator data as indicated in Table 8 shall
be presented and discussed. If the Committee finds a breach of the conditions,
then DLMC will issue directions for conducting the joint survey of the crop-wise
affected insurance units which includes a written notice to concemed ICs fora Joint
Survey. The report of the joint survey will be presented in the DLMC and with the
recommendation of DLMC it shall be forwarded to the State Government for
validation and issuance of the necessary notification for invocation of
Preventedsowing, =f | | | {

21.3.4.4 State ೧061110671 en | declare the list of notified 131]! suffered Prevented or
FailedsSowing/Planting/Germination \ditions My Syproximate areas in
pergentage of the unit. Such information'should be compulsorilyuploaded on NCIP
to@rrive at the Claim amount of eligible insured farmers from the Portal itself.
21.3.5 Conditions: a | %
21.3,5.1 (The €over will be available for major crops covering a total sown area higher than
[25% 0! the total sown area of the District/Taluka or the equivalent unit for the
4 seagon (refer Para 7.2.1.1): Provision of Area Correction Factor (ACF) will not be
2 i applicable. et ಖ್‌
21.3.5, Mere tisburgemenv sai ota ute eipt/ debit of premium the
ನ (೧00000 fa nity won'tmake a farmer eligiblefor aim.
ಸ ak ಯಿ
21.3.5.3) This provision has to be ಗೆ ಈ] overnment within 30 days from date
|) ofthe nétinal sowing and ni seni day$*of the|euf-off date for enrolment,
ಪ ಬ ಇಂ ದ್‌
21.3.5.4 ಸ, The IC would disburse the ಇಸಿ? 13/5 of the'State’s Notification invoking
“athe eventofth@jnsuredrisky, ಫಿ
21.3.5.5 “The pay-outuinderthe cover yould bé disbursed by the IC only afterthe receipt of at
least advance Government share of premium subsidy (1" instalment of both State
21.3.5.6 17607೦೫ Cpyer would terminatefer the affected crop fa Notified IU once a claim
under this sectiofnis invoked andthe affected Instirance Unit/ Crop would not be
eligible for any other add-on and area yield based claim calculated at the end of the
season for that crop. ಕ್‌
21.3.5.7 Once this provision is invokéd, no fresh enrolment of farmers for the affected
notified crops and areas would be done. ಸ
21.3.5.8 Once exigency is invoked it applies to all the insured farmers in the Notified
Insurance Unit fora given crop, including those whose crop survived.
21.3.5.9 The Bank would remit farmers' premium to IC, with eligible loanee farmers list,
within 7 days of the intimation of loss under this section, if not uploaded earlier on
Portal. However, this option must be exercised as a last recourse with proper
justification.
|
000 ೧710) 9೦೪.1. ಈ |
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY |

--- Page 158 ---
Illustration )56
21.35.10 District ‘B' with 100 Insurance Units has been affected by a dry-spell at the
beginning of crop season, consequently about 80% of the area could not be sown
in about 50 Insurance Units for groundnut crop, where per hectare sum insured 15 ¢
Rs. 20,000. As per the provision of payment for prevented sowing, the benefit
payable is Sum Insured x 25%, which on a sum insured of Rs.20,000 works out to
Rs.5,000/- in the 50 Insurance Units with more than 75% area which could not,
be sown.
21.3.5.11 Detailed Procedure and Timelines for payment of Prevented / Failed Sowing and
Prevented Planting / Germination Claims is mentioned in Table 8 below:
~ Action requiredto |, | | Actién to be ‘Schedule for taking
be taken PR fateriby action
Joint Compt DLC) |] ಕ್ಷ | i ie ಜಾ
- under the Chairpersonship 1] | eee a» %
lof the*DistrighCollector |. ad It 5೧೦೭ರ be part of mai
(DGy Distrigt Magistrate | 6143 ; Notation Sie issued thi
(DM*) withthe following fi ಇ ಬಜ ್ಪ್ಥ by State/ UT for,
membersifor loss ees Geek implementation of, PMFBY.
lassessment survey: ಹ aoe The composition of
eae EE: Gommitige should be
: |" District Agriculture / “sia UT Nodal notified in the PMFB) ೩
© | Horticullire /Reyenue |», Department/ (SLCC!) 4a} notification by the State/UT
Details Goverment | | ಈ
AWSIARG at appropriate | t | 2 (256 included in the
level accordirifto, | emai notification of
availability) in Notification |... . Was" State Government itself.
UT the for implementation ಜಾಸ್‌
of PMFBY for weather data
supply including rainfall to
DLJC. = State/ UT Nodal ಸ
Department (SLCCCI). .
Major crops should be
declared strictly based on 5
the criteria defined in the
OG and they should be nao
mentioned in the notification
issued by State Govemment
www.pmiby.gov.in (63)
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 159 ---
13>
Par Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
ತ be taken taken by action
District-wise tentative time
period and cut off dates for
Sowing of major crops.
“Cut-off date for
applicability of prevented ~do-
‘pe sowing provision shall not
é be one month from the time
of normal sowing period
and no later than 15 days
trom the enrolment cut-off
date ಅಭ _ ಐ.
Details of the month-wise
district-wise as per IMD's d
Long Period 1 aed
(LPA) of rainfall. H fi fs i |
Decision to (ಇ... | ®Wefinitions &
fulfilment ofthe.éligibilty off | Minter relations regarding
more thai affected | | 1 [| proxy 1ಗೆಡ್ರ/೧21೦ಗ would be
sown dita ithe 1|||(|| applied ಜ್‌
701180 insurance unit hE a6 guidelines as, below.
within ೧1 1107111 of the — | (| ಹ (|!
owing period based on tha | “i ಸ
Gccurrenée of any one of |. ಸ ಸ್ಸ ಟು ಖೆ
the proxy Indicators aa more deviation
occurring along with other |». ae | thanthelPA, >
> 1!| * SevereDrought ಹ್‌ 006/೦: i
“|| Condition, as defined in | "ll [10೧೧1005 rega ding
ಕ | 2016. le ಸ 18 ಕ್‌ ಅಲ ತ
| + Dry spellsiandidrought | 3. ಈ (ಆ ಗ ಸ್ಯ ?
“| + Abnormally Low /Highy, |». ie 8 Bee faa ತೆ S with
[5 comparison toEPA>20%), 1 ¢ | Bintan Deviation 20%
“deviation RR DEIR 0 2 ‘Rainfall (RF).
“Abnormally LowhHigh | ಇ ಫ್‌ ಜಾಜಿ i
ainfall in comparison to | My | 1133 (0100/4001 deviation:
ಯ ಇಲ ಖೆ, Pc ತೆಗ900:
of insect Pesta | ಆ. his loving
Diseases impacting 7... | ene: lA ಚೀಟ್‌ Sowing:
75% crop soWpArea”. | AR Rabi
“Any other definednatural| |e (ಸೌ
event including floodingtaj.. WS cee | normal Sown Area’.
which may lead to ಕ್‌ 4. Soil Moisture:
widespread losses Plant available Soil Moisture
impacting > 75% crop (PASM) / Moisture
sown 2762", Adequacy Index (MAI)--
ಬ Supported by Satellite 0%-75%.
Image and Satellite Index 5. Hydrology:
based outputs to be Reservoir Storage Index
ಸೆ provided by ISRO/SAC, (RSI)>20%

3 MNCFC or any other Govt. Ground Water Drought
approved agency, Govt. Index (5೪/01) —>0.16%
crop condition reports, Steam Flow Drought Index
and Media reports etc. (SFDI) 70.01.

www.pmfby.gov.in ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY |

--- Page 160 ---
=
)5%
SiN Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
ಲ. be taken taken by action
District Agriculture / |
, Horticulture / Revenue : ನ
reaching of set triggers of DLJC) Besides, if a ha sal Pols bait
Brow ee as IC notices the occurrence ಷಸ seas hes ae 1
3 ಭತರ ಗೆ © to bel 91 Prevented sowing / cies ತಸ i
0೮0೧೧ 01119 011410 ಓಜ failure of sowing / planting ಅ aeteet atl
convened on ose of germination, then they can ತ ಸಜ a an ಕ ಜ್ಯ
any one of proxy indicators| ಎ1ಎಂ. report and appeal to bes fore es 2 ie 0 hy 9)
as mentioned above. DLMC for invoking the is seasonal evel
clause under the provision.
Sample survey forthe Peres
assessment ofmore than |. i | | a |
ಹ 414141. ಸಹಿ
(ಪನ ( | || ie mm,
racial n end sagen 4 ‘ a ೧110. '1/1೧17:7 days of
jithiSupporting weather! |. ye pe ° meeting of DLMC.
gmote sensing indices, be, BE 4 Ea
13/3 andidocumentary |, £9) ಟೆ ತ si
{proofs ta State/ UT Nodal ಜಾಗ್‌ 5 ಕ
| 15506 ofthe notification to oo id ತ
15500 off ಲ್ಲ ಲ y hs, Within 7 day
Lie ಟೂ o Om ಕೋಟ ಕ a of fa
a ಗು ಜು Ne | 4 15 days ಕ್ಷೆ the
Gans ote ‘premium ಸ್ಕೈ "planks (loange & Cut-off date for enrolment
ಜ್ಜ ಕ ಹ್ಹ MOgMeangaland. . ffof farmers. This should be
debited to the Insurance ping cues processed oa parallel
ಜಗ ee C2) jon-foanee). basis with the survey and
Compeay: (hs ಹ 2 & |. issuance’6f notification.
payment, ee? | \ os a 7
ee ae fee = | Waite 7 notice within 7 days
ao ad a ಚರ್ಚಾ ್ಮ proofs/data/reports
TOS ie eee substantiating the claim.
ಟ್‌ DLMC to review the
- reports/evidences and
cate resolve the dispute within
7 days. In case the dispute
Te ಬ್ಲ BV arly ಈತನಕ ರ ||
sepaerphselceebat Aa affected stakeholder can
Extent of assessed loss. make appeal to State ಸ
Nodal Department,
thereafter to STAC, as per
process defined in
Grievance Redressal
mechanism.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 161 ---
ಹ No. ‘Action required to ‘Action to be Schedule for taking
iil be taken taken by action
Assessment of likely
7 | 8 claim based on
notification issued by ;
Within one month of the
State Nodal Department, notification invoking this
Fal Payment to eligible farmers| ali subject to receipt!
1 (25% of sum insured), and 0 of 1"instalment of
9 insurance coverage for the inetiacs: ಚ advance Government
crop-IU gets over. No other Subsidy
claim after payment under (both State and Central
this provision will be Government).
applicable even to those
farmers whose crop t ೯ ಆ
survived. HE § | Baa
Data pertainingto,loss [7 i ಸ ’
assessmentifepart finalized | |) . | | ಸ
by DLJGgnd admissible | | | | | Within 7 days of
claims_iill ಚಚ on |) |) Insurance Company we fret
the NGIPagainsteach |1| | i “ಲ್ಲ
eligible farmer. | E by ನ
*Note{ Normal Sown Area will be Average ಆಂಗ So¥p Aroa ಶಿರ
" preceding three seasons and ೪11 nade available by the concerned State
“Government on NCIP. i 4
7 21.4 |. On-Account Payment of Claims ui Senrondda ty: ©
..... 01 adverse seasonal condilionsiduiting the crop season viz. floods, dry
21.4.2.1\) This add-on cover willjonly \be available if this. co Jer is notified by the State
21.4.2.2 ಕ್ರ 708866 1Us would be eligible for Zn-Account” payment only ifthe expected
Yield of the affected crop during the season in those lUsis less than 50% of Normal
eld, where:ormal: yield will befdctermined as. an’ average’ of immediately
ge || ್‌
21.423 The provisidineould be invoked fla specific crop or agup of crops in the notified
IU, by the DLMC/State Goverment ‘on the:basis"of proxy weather indicators
supported by the joint ldssassesemient survey Subject to fulfilment of the conditions
specified in the OGs.
21.4.2.4 The quantum of likely losses and the amouht of 'on-account’ payment shall be
decided based on the joint survey Dy representatives of IC, District
= Administration/State Government Nodal Department and Farmers. In case of
dispute/disagreement between the stakeholders regarding the quantum/extent of
loss reported by the Joint Loss Assessment committee, the claim calculation will be
. done using technology derived solutions involving weather/remote-sensing
indices along with loss assessment surveys with weightage of 70% : 30%
respectively for assessment and evaluation of the final extent of loss. Acceptance
of the technology based assessment of the extent of loss will be binding on all
; stakeholders.
www.pmfby.gov.in ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 162 ---
160
21.4.2.5 STAC in coordination with SRSAC will conduct the yield estimation and
assessment of loss as mentioned in Para 21.4.2.4 based on the protocol
developed by MNCFC. STAC may take help of MNCFC if they desire.
21.426 Only those farmers would be eligible for financial support under this cover who,
have paid the premium / the premium has been debited from their account before
the happening of the mid-season adversity. Banks must ensure to debit farmers
premium within 15 days from sanction/renewal of KCC/crop loan of all eligible
farmers and well before the cut-off date for debiting the premium to provide benefit
of this add on cover.
21.4.2.7 Amount payable would be 25% of the likely claims, subject to adjustment against
final claims based on yield assessment data arrived through CCEs.
21.4.2.8 If adversity occurs within 1 month of the start of normal sowing (as per the
crop. calendar/notified y States) andiwithin 15 days before the normal
harvest time, this provisic a not be invoked. In,such a case, the losses will
not qualify:separately under this provision but will B€ flaid on the basis of CCE
based yield estimation data. Slate Govemnment shall cofpulSgrily notify the normal
harvesting time for’ ris op ha (7018-01041೧0 éraps district wise.
21.4.3 ,Proxy-ndicators: Indicaters to be used for loss intimation could Be rainfall data,
Yother-weather indices,. satellite imagery, remote sensiig ‘indiges, drought
-f assessment reports of MNGFG and crop condition reports'by the district level/
& State Goverment ported by media reports and field photographs, The
= State's notification should.al otal out all the necessary details and the broad list
2 ofindicators tobe used Mere: ses Ai ;
eg Ves } ಕ್‌ Bs: :
21.4.4 Lossassessinent procédures ಕ ce ತ್ತಿ
| wi : <a a a | :
21.4.44, The Joint Cor of the State/District Administration/NodalDepartment and the
| Insurefi{refer Para 21.3,5:11) for the-aSsessment of gropidamage haye to be
{ — formedsand notified bel 1 wal ofthe ೦೧ séasgn by the SLECCI for
ಸ್ನ. eachdisttict Sa oer iw ರ |
21.4.4.2 When itis petceived that. tiskils 1110988035 defined,in the protocol for different
‘A. indices, viz.\Weather, Remoté Sensing? Hydrology, Soil: Moistu Insects/
®kPest/ Disease impact resulting into mid-term adverse ir pact on crop ind thereby
‘qualifying for on-account’ payment gf claims and if it is felt ‘that't ಆ prevailing
the'Ghairman, DLMC on his/her own'a cord or on the directions of State Nodal
Department, as the case may bs, convene the meeting.of DLMC wherein the
weather/proxy indicator data ofjtie indicators. as indicated in Table 9 shall be
presented anddiscussed. If the Gommittee feels thaf'the triggers for invocation of
mid-season adversity:as. mentioned above have been breached, then DLMC will
issue directions for convening. a meeting of the DLJC for conducting a joint survey
of the crop-wise affected insurance unit and written notice may be Issued to
concerned ICs for the Joint Survey. The report of the joint survey will be presented
in the DLMC/DLJC and with the recommendation of DLMC it shall be forwarded to
State Government for validation and issue of necessary notification for invocation ~
of mid-season adversity.
24.4.4.3 The Joint Committee shall decide the eligibility for mid-term adversity declaration
based on the daily weather indices (available AWS notified by the
Government/long term average rainfall data/temperature data) satellite imagery
and remote sensing indices, Crop conditions, insect / pest / disease impact
indicating crop yield losses at notified IU level.
‘www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 163 ---
21.4.4.4 Based on these parameters, the Joint Commitee will assess whether the provision
of On-account payment will be invoked and will call for a joint survey. A formal letter
has to be issued within 7 days from the adverse seasonal event by the concemed
District Administration/District Level Joint Committee for carrying out the joint loss
| assessment surveys in affected 1115 along with a list of such IUs.
21.4.4.5 Based on the above report, ajoint inspection of the affected area shall be done the
ಗ IC along with the District Administration/Nodal Department officials and farmer
i representatives for ground truthing using mobile phone App and arrive al the extent
011055 by carrying outIU level sample loss surveys.
21.4.4.6 Information! Services of MNCFC, ISRO or SRSAC may also be utilized for
determination of the extent of oss, using satellite data, for On-Account pay-out.
21.4.4.7 If the assessed loss of the affected crop assessed through Loss Assessment
Surveys is more than 50% of the normal crop yield for the Notified Insurance Unit,
On-Accountspayment would ನೂ 30,days from the date of the
invoca hd d-term adversiy a % ಕೆ
21.4,4,8 OnzAccofint payment would be calculated as per following fo la:
© (Threshold Yield - Estimated Yield ಗ
ಶ್ರೋ ಗರಂ ಸ ಬಸರ 2% ಜ್ಟ
ಡೆ Threshold Yield ಟಿ 1
21.4.5 Timeframe for loss assessment and submission of report: _ 1
21.4.54) A formal invocation of mid-season adversity through a formal letter will be issued
"by the Districl‘Administration/Nodal Department 01 State Government asking to
| carryout the! fossa sessment surveys with detailsofthe affedied IUswithini7 days
| 7 : fromthe ೦೦೫ Le ve 7, ee on:
21.4.5.2) Loss assessment répo | had insurance unit eve! (113510 be completed by
| the Joint'ommittee within.15 days from occurfence of the adverse seasonal event
andthe loss feport shold compulsorily be uploaded of NCIP to arrive at the Claim
, amount of eligible insured farmers from thePortal. ye
21.4.6 “Conditions: 1 ತೆ
21.4.6.1 Mere disbursement/ sanction'of loam without receipl/.debit of prémium before the
ofification of the calamity woulda ಆ 2
21.4.6.2 The pay-olitunder the cover would be disbursed bythe ICénly after the receipt of at
least advance’ Government share! premium subsidy (1st instalment of both State
& Central ಅಂ೦ಗಾಗಾ68 (ತ್‌
21.4.6.3  On-Account payment would be paid to all eligible insured farmers within one month
of the notification invoking this provision by the State Government and subject to
receipt of loss assessment report from State Government.
21.4.6.4. These claims would be adjusted against the end season area approach yield
based claims.
21.4.6.5 Banks would remit farmers’ premium to the IC, with the farmers list, within 7 days of
the intimation of loss under this section, if not uploaded earlier on Portal. However,
this option must be exercised as a lastrecourse with proper justification.
ತ ‘www.pmfby.gov.in oO
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 164 ---
=
Mlustration \2-
21.4.6.6 _ District ‘A’ has been affected by floods having 100 insurance units under Crop ‘x’.
Out of which 50 insurance units were severely affected and as per the weather
indicators /agro-met data, 111185 been assessed that 30 125 could have yield lossof =,
more than 50% of the normal yield. Out of these 30 insurance units, estimated yield
loss against TY for 5 units 15 80% (Category-I), for another 10 units, it is 70%
(Category-Hl) and remaining 15 units, itis 60% (Category-Ill) of normal yield. Asper
declarations received, if sum insured for notified areas in Category-I, Category-I!
and Category-lilis Rs. 1 crore, Rs. 2 crore, and Rs. 3 crore, respectively, then likely
total claims will be Rs. 80 lakh, 140 lakh and 180 lakh, respectively. Hence
on-account claims upto 25% shall be Rs.20 lakh, 35 lakh and 45 lakh, which will be
released during the season subjectto receipt of premium subsidy.
21.4.6.7 Detailed Procedure and Timétiries for Op Account Payment of Claims due to
Mid-Season Adversity Fs ie a in Table 9 below:
Action requiredto ೦11೦.10 be ‘Schedule for taking
©” beitaken ತ್ತ 7 by ಟು action
ಇ District Level Joint | © | % % It should be aipart of main
Committee (DL JC) under ಹ್‌ | Notification to be issued by
|Chairpersonship of DC/DM with). 1 State UT for“,
[the following members 1071055 ' |... 5 implementation of PMFBY.
{J assessment survey: ೬... ee The composition of;
© | + District Agriculture / 10100011176]... |. Commitige should be -
|. Reventle Officergas ೧೦೧೪೦೧೦೧ |” otified|in the PMFBY
* Concemed Insuratice Company} 4 State/ UI Nodal "| notification by the State/UT|
+ Represehtati etl ID from |* “Department }) |'€first meeting should be. ೬
nearest Obsefyatoty, if available} Cl). [7 | Reld within a week After
[| * Representative of KVK/ 3) 4 ‘| nptifigation to familiarize
ಜು (ಕ ಕೆ |ithe,fembers with tie
ಜು | 3 representatives fromistrict, | ~~ ಡೆ (| procedure to be followed.
}\ farmers nominated by eS ಈ ಟೆ ಕ್ವಿ ಜತ
‘Agriculture Department. "ಲ್ಲ aka ಬಸ,
to be notified by the State/ UT for | SR =
ಬ ಗ! ಟ್ಟ 1ಟ1ಟ((೨
weather dat@supply including «| To,b@ included in the main
rainfall to DLIGS State/ UT Nodal 11101100107 of State
in case Government AWSIARG | Wee Department") "Government itself.
not available, Pvt. AWS/ARG ican} = (20319001).
be notified.
. Tentative dates of crop-wise & ರ
s district-wise sowing & harvesting. | ` 55
Details of month-wise =
district-wise IMD's Long Period
Average LPA of rainfall. ;
After 1 month from normal Definitions & interpretations
sowing and before 15 days from regarding proxy indicators
the normal harvest time, would be applied as per
fulfilment of eligibility of IMD's guidelines as below
www.pmiby.gov.in ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 165 ---
(63
Sl.No Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
rer be taken taken by action
On-Account payment (i.e. 50%
yield loss in standing crops to be age wart. LPA.

Py compared with Normal yield in
notified insurance unit area as Abnormal Weather
explained in Para 21.4.2.2) is to Parameter:

6 be decided based on occurrence (+) 20 ೧೯ more deviation
of any one of the proxy Indicators | than the Long Period
occurring along with other proxy Average.
indicators of:

Definitions & interpretationg
+ Severe Drought Condition, as regarding proxy indicators
defined in the Drought Manual, for drought would be
2016. a Ba applied as per Drought
«Dry spells and drought | Manual 2016, i.e.
declared by State/ UT. | ಜು
+ ಓ0/011110[/ 0 1 High j {Rainfall Index:
temperatire if Comparisc | Dry Spell: 3-4 weeks with
LPA>20% deviation. i <50% of Normal RF
+ Abnormally Low / High rainfall | Rainfall Deviation: < -20%
in‘compafison to LPA> 20% | of Normal RF
deviation: hh. | ಗ್ಗೆ Os
+ Widespread incidences 01 1. | 2. Remote Sensing:
2 || Insect, Pest & Diseases ~~ |... 0 NDVI/NDWI deviation:
impacting > 25% crop sown, | <-20%30% ಇ
1 Areats Fn. EY VCI Value—0-40%"
3 ©] + Any other defined natural event! : 3
1 |. including 10061 ich may | |. Crop'Sowing: .
lead to\Widespread 105505... ‘Area Under Sowing:
| |. impacting > 25% crop 50/0 y Kharif.<'33.3% , Rabi
area’. { ep 11 ಇ 50% ೮! crop-wises
||, and 50110 11100೫ based, | a Le 4. Soil Moisture:
[outputs to be provided by@, y | PASMIMAI-0%-75%
ISRO/SAC, MNEFC ೦೯೨! ಡೆ 101 Hydrology:
Gher ೮೦/೧೫61 approved 4 11?
ಯ ಯ 1 /| Gwol->0.16%
ಇ ಗ ಇಂ ತೆ Srl ony
ಸ ಸ ರ ff [10900601010 to be
Keeping watch over breaching of } | convened with relevant
set triggers of prox) 17010010. We | data, to be placed before
as mentioned aboVe.,Meeting of | “Bistrict Agrculture’/| the Committee and
DLJC to be convened ರಿಗ deel 01೦106 decision should be taken
3 breaching of any one of 90000 58/43 Ta. Officer | Within 7 days from the
triggers of excess rainfall, (ie. convener of | ೦೦೦೮೮೧೦೧೦೧ of adverse
flooding, deficit rainfall and dry 1 DLJC). seasonal event and
spells, drought, highiow v communicated through a
‘ temperature, Insect) letter for conducting joint
Pest-Disease. loss assessment surveys
in listed 106.
| Physical loss assessment survey| "
10 be carried out for at least 5% | Within Gays oF issuing
fo be done by letter for carrying out loss
4 of crop sown area at 10 different DLIC assessment surv
locations randomly spread over P oc i
Insurance Units (IU). ss ತ
‘www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 166 ---
=
Vea.
atte, Action required to | Action to be - Schedule for taking
ಇವ be taken taken by action
Written notice within 7
days to Chairman-DLMC.
with proofs/data/reports .
substantiating the claim.
DLMC to review the
- ಸ reports/evidences and a
Dispute/Disagreement of any resolve the dispute within
stakeholder on the process of By any 7 Days. In case the
Loss Assessment Survey or Stakeholder. dispute is still unresolved,
Extent of assessed loss. the affected stakeholder
can make appeal to State
Nodal Department,
thereafter to STAC as per
ಸ "4 process defined in
11 PE EES Grievance Redressal
ge PEaE mechanism.
Assessment ely losse ೩ hea ಸಟ ತೆ
amount ofon-atcount’ pore Pea i i lave So eee ee neni
ಟೆ | Airy ೧೫೦55 25501 (
ಪ ಯು ಸೂಟ ೨... ( ೪ ಕಟ್ತಾ ರ್‌ to receipt
ತ್‌ fe Company of aflleast ತಗ
Payment {6 eligible farmers: F of advance Government
7 % i = ag Subsidy, (both State and
en of likely claims), ಯ. ತ್ರೆ CentrakGoverntient)
ನ್‌್‌ ಬ ಚ್‌ FE
=| assessment report finalized by ||. Instirance Nithin 7 da =
|| DLJC atid admissible claims 111! | — Company 6.17 surve
©) be uploaded on the NCIP Sa. | ಜಾ 1 te :

: || against each eligible’ armen (1 ae a ಕ
ಡ್ನ *Note§Nomial Sawn Arealwill be Average ae gin Area of immediately
pre edihg the e Geasoris and will beSmade aysiiable,bysine concerned State

21.5 1 ಸಂ! ತೆ & g £ ce | Ce |
Roe eee perils/ calamiligs viz. hailstormy landslide,
‘inundation, cloud burst and Natural ficé'due to lightening affecting part of a notified
೦೯೨010೬1 ೫ ೩ Nd ಕಾಊ
21.5.2 For the, purpose of indemniicatc of crop losses due to inundation as localised
calamitye\qundation is a situation Where insured field is covered or submerged by
water due tothe rise in water leveliby rainwater thathasfallen naturally from the sky
or from an artesianwell or flood Water locally andwhere water stays for a prolonged
period and causes visible'damagate the crop
21.5.3 Eligibility Criteria: ಇ ೩
ಹ
21.5.3.1 This add-on cover will only be available if this cover is notified by the State.
Government.
21.5.3.2 Available to all insured farmers, at farm unit level, affected by above mentioned
perils in a Notified 1U growing notified crops for which insurance has been availed.
ಎ Maximum liability is limited to the proportionate Sum Insured of the damaged crop's
area and the pay-out under this provision would be in proportion to the cost of
. inputs, incurred up to the occurrence of the insured peril.
ಎಮಮ ಅಗಳು ನಾಸಾ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY 9

--- Page 167 ---
165 ;
21,5.3.4 State Government shall notify the predetermined input cost as percentage of the
total Sum Insured for different stages of the crop life cycle from sowing to

harvesting preferable at a interval of 15 days in the Notification itself.

ವ 24.5.3.5 Only those farmers would be eligible for financial support under this cover who
have paid the premiumi.e. the premium has been debited from their account before
the occurrence of the insured peril.

8 21,5.3.6 If the payout under the crop yield estimation (based on CCEs data) is more than
localized losses, the higher claims of two will be payable to the insured farmers.

21.5.3.7 Proxy-Indicators: Rainfall data/ hailstorm/landslidefightening (natural fire)
incidences substantiated by reports in the local media or reports of the Agriculture/
Revenue Department supported by media Report and other evidences.
21.5.4 Loss assessment procedure: | i i
21.5.4.1 Time 26116/1706 of reporting the 14 ee,
A. gitnmédiate intimation (within 72 hours) by the instited farmer as detailed in
fy Pars21.6.4.2below.” © . | | | ಜ್ಜ ರ್ಯಾ
8B. |ftimation must contain details of insured farmer's name, affected survey
ಕಿ number-wise insured crop and acréage affected, Farmer's Application No as
7 ‘on NCIP, his/her Mobile Number etc. KCC A/c No. (in ase of loanee farmer)
iy "or Saving bank Account (in case of Non-Loanee farmetas declared at the
ad ‘time of applying for crop insurance) for identification and verification purpose.
| C. \Premiunypayment verification to be done from the portaland in case of need,
thay be 7 Ve ed from) the bank. The bank Shall provide the payment
& verification witt in the next 48 hours of receipto! ‘such request. s
D.  Mobilé application may be used for reporting incidé nce ‘Of localized calamities
for intimation ofevents including longitudeflatitude details and pictures using
ಆಜ ಚಟ ಭಕ ಇಗ ಕೆ
21.5.4.2 “\ Channel of reporting i. om to be.eported: Intimation may be given within
72 hours by the farmer er dit | through the “Crop Insurance App” or
‘dedicated toll-free number Centralized Call. Centre. numbergo concerned
iNsurance Company. The intimation may also be forwarded through the concerned
bahkbranch, local agriculture 0 patiment Gove ಗ Officials or through
the tolfree number. The first mode of intimation should 041116 "Crop Insurance
App" and the.centra 1ರ eg Number forthis purpose. This can be followed by
intimation throtighihe Insurance Gompany’s toll free number or through the bank or
district officials to™nsurance |Gompany-forconducting the individual level
investigations. The concerned ‘bank/intermediary would verify the insured details
like crop insured, sum insured, premium debited and date of debit & remittance for
ಈ conducting the investigation/assessment.
ಇ ಷ್ಣ
ತ 21.5.4.3... ೧೦೧೦೧1೧0 of losses will be done through the Crop Insurance App and the
Centralised Toll-Free Number (once operationalized), along with other channels.
Other Channels will be phased out subsequently.
21.5.4.4 In case the intimation has been through the concemed bank branch or Government
officials, the concerned IC should be informed within the next 48 hours,
: www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಎ

--- Page 168 ---
21.55 Documentary evidence required for claim assessment:
21.5.5.1 Duly filled intimation / application of crop insurance app along with all relevant
documents is necessary for initiation of loss assessment and payment of claims.
However, if information on all the columns 15 not readily available, semi-filled form =
may be sent to the Insurance Company and later within 7 days of the loss, the form
with complete details may be submitted.
21.5.5.2 The ICis responsible for ensuring that sufficientnumber ofloss intimation formsare —*
available at the bank branch/iocal Government officials level. Any other additional
documents can be collected directly from the farmer at the time of loss assessment
by the representative/surveyor of the Insurance Company. Insurance Company
shall complete all formalities for the payment of such claims like local newspaper
cutting and any other available evidence to substantiate the occurrence of loss
eventand severity of the loss, ifany. ;
21.5.5.3 IMD roport, Media report, Local Newspaper cutting to substantiate occurrence of
loss eventandseverity af the loss, ifahy.” { ~~
21.5.6 Appéintyient of Loss Assessors by the Insurance Companiy:
= ame: ಯಾ
21.5.6,1. The |ಲ್ವನ5 assessors would be appointed by the InstranceyCompany for
ಪ್ರೈ 35565411 ಗ incidence of Localized ೮177/16. The lds assessors
& appointed by the ICs sholild. be in accordance with the IRDAl provisions. The loss
4 assessors appointed should possess following experience and qualification:
& + §Diplomaldegree ತ (ಡೆ with minimum 2 years relevant experience or
= sbachelor dearee in Agriculture and allied subjects with one} oe 5
| + {Retired Governmen eee <6{ Agricullgre), Hortigulture/. Extension
| + Retired Baniofticiats withieXpefience of ¢ op loaning or Kisan 1 édit Card
ಸ್ನ 3 PRR 3]
24.5.6.2°% For compliance under the aboyé provisions the 105 wobld utilize the empanelied
loss assessors for using their services asdndwhenreguired,
21,5.6.3 ithe loss would be joiftly assessed by a tear ‘comprising of Joss assessor
‘appointed by the insurer, block leveliagriculture officer and the ೧1೦೮77೦೮ farmer.
Logs assessed by the Joint Gomiittes at-eaeh "individual field level should
compbisorily be uploaded ‘on NIP to arrive 81 thé Claim afnount of the eligible
insured farmers from the Portal. | ee ್ಮ
21.5.7 Time frame 1071095 3550557701] and submission of the report:
A. Appointmentofloss assessor within 48 hours.
B. Lossassessmentto be completed within the next 10 days.
C. Claim settlement to be completed in next 15 days (subject to receipt of |"
farmers premiumé first instalment of Subsidy).
1D. Maximum liability would be limited to proportionate Sum Insured of damaged |
cropped area within insured plot (5).
E. _ Intimation of crop losses is compulsory for individual insured farmers through
various channels in case of losses due to specified localized calamities. If the
ಮಾ ಗಳಗಳ ರರ ಅ ಇಸ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 169 ---
16>

intimation of crop losses due to specified localized calamities is received by

the State Government then they will enter the data of intimations of crop

losses in a form that can be uploaded in the NCIP and provide the same to

Insurance Company along with copies of the intimations received. The

Insurance Company will upload this data in the NCIP. The number of
| intimations of the farmers will be compared with the number of insured

farmers in a notified insurance unit.

ತ F. |! the number of intimation as compared to the total cropped area for
that particular crop is less than 25%, then an individual survey of all the
farmers shall have to necessarily be done. This assessment shall have to be
done for each insured crop individually in the IU.

G. _ If the number of intimation as compared to the cropped area in the IU is more
than 25% area under the crop, then a survey of farmers will be done through
random selection from the. intimation list of the farmers using a random
numbertable. The tentative sample size would be.as under:

| Intimation (Cropped area under notified crop ‘Surve
25% 10 <=50% | 25% of he Inimations woulbe surveyed |
& > 50% 30% of the Intimations\would Be surveyed |
21.5.8 {° Conditions: %
fi f an
21.5.8. Merg disbursement/sanction of a loan without receipt/debit of premium before the
೬ ft occurrence of insured peril would not make a farmer eligible forthe claim,
21.5.82 — Whenithe al area ited pio et of the lotalicropped area in the notified
- insurance unit, ‘the losses of eligi ible farmers would’be as essed individually
"provided they have intimated and paid premium, prior to occurrence of insurance
| peril: The intimatioy is ale condition to get benefit! for the localized claim.
+ Intimationatthe timeo Cw? béconsidéred.
21.5.8.3°) 1110 affected area under eit op iS more than 25% of the total Gapped area
(1, 17 3 7೦0006 insurance unit, 61೮10] farmers (who have taken insurance for
“the notified crap, which fas, been damaged and informed about oécurrence of
‘calamity in the farm within the. stiputa ted time) in the notified insurance unit would
be, deemed to have sufferedjiocalized loss and would be eligible for financial
ಗೆ support. The percentage of 125 (Would 00 :೯11/ಅರ at she ance Company
through. requisite number of. sainple survey as defined in [೧101166 protocol for
area-based assessment and claiggisettiement. A
21.5.8.4 7೧6 ರ್‌ -settiemenfshall be decidéd based on the outcome of joint
loss assessment surveySicartiedjout-by‘fepresentatives of Insurance Company,
District Administration/State Government Nodal Department and Farmers. Further
if the affected area is more than 25% of the total cropped area and there is dispute /
disagreement between the stakeholders regarding the quantum/extent of loss
reported by the Joint Loss Assessment committee, the claim calculation will be
° done using technology derived solutions involving weather/remote-sensing
indices along with loss assessment surveys with a weightage of 70%: 30%
respectively for assessment and evaluation of the final extent of loss. Acceptance
. of the technology-driven extent of loss will be binding on all stakeholders,
21.5.8.5 STAC in coordination with State Remote Sensing Application Centre will conduct
yield estimation and assessment of loss as mentioned in Para 21.5.8.4 based on
www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY
|

--- Page 170 ---
eS on, js || ಧ್ವ ಟಯ a
the protocol developed by MNCFC. STAC may take the help of MNCFC if they
desire.

21.5.8.6 The pay-out under the cover would be disbursed by the Insurance Company only
after the receipt of atleast advance Government share of premium subsidy Fs
(1stinstalment of both State & Central Government Share).
21.5.8.7 The Insurance Company would disburse the claim, if payable within 15 days of
survey ofloss.
21.5.8.8 If, at the end of the season, based on the yield data, the final admissible claim is
more than the claim paid under this cover, the balance would be paid at the end of
the season under widespread claims.
21.5.8.9 Farmers getting enrolled or whose premium is debited after the occurrence of
insurance peril would notbe eligible for financial support under this cover.
21.5.8.10 Bank wobld remit farmers’ rope tg Insurance Comparyiyth farmers list, within
7 een ofloss under this Section, if not uploaded eatiier on Portal.
2+ Sum Insured for a ctop= Rs.g0,000% ' ಚ!
© + EAssessedlossin the affected aréa due to operation of instifed peril 340%
= + &Claims Payable undetiy = RS.30,000*40% = Rs. 000. :
= + {End of season reportédshortfall inYield=60%wintTY (1...
(ಗೆ ರ್‌ ಗ (|...
x é Claiméestimated ba irea_approachivat 111 leyel = Rs.30,000«60%
+ Balance payable ನ್ಯಾ? 4B,000-Ree¥2,000-Rs.6,000 |
21.5.10 "4 Detailed Progedure and Timieliies for paythent of Localized claims 13118100706 in
Betaken jtakenby | |
Intimation maysbe give ಜಾ 4
farmer either through Affectedifarmer(s) may
Mobile Application, 12/1/7315 bsin \g mobile.
Centralized Toll-Free landline of Social media..
Number, directly to the Farmer should provide his A
Insurance Gompany bank account number
through it's dedicated (loan account for loanee | Within 72 hours from thé
toll-free number or through =
the concemed bank, local | farmer and savings occurrence of a peril.
agriculture department account for non-loanee
Government/district officials} farmer) or Enrolment =
However, the first mode of | number generated from
intimation should be either | the portal at the time of
crop insurance app or the | intimation.
centralised Toll-Free
Number. :
= avin ಸಾತ್‌ @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 171 ---
164
SI-No.| ಜ್‌ ~~ Actiontobe | 50006010 for taking
li be taken taken by action
In case the intimation has been
given through concemed bank
| branch or Government officials,
the intimation should be given
within next 48 hours to the
, Insurance Company.
Intimation about occurrence of
localized perils! calamities viz.
Hailstorm, Landslide, Inundation,
Cloud burst and Natural fire due
to lightening may be given upto
harvest date as notified in the
State Nolification and |
supported by eforgtion of
IMD / local (110012, and Reports of
Agricultugd ReNenue
Depa eps Reports. : ಕ್ಟ
71085565 due to occurrence
of Jb 91200೧6115: within 15 days 1
€(೧೦ ee be | ಳ್ಳ
assessed based on combination %
[of sample survey and CCEs i
[}with 50:50 weightage. aii %
7 Forwarding of information / 1 3 Ls
; intimation of the farmer(s) to™».| a" 1 Loc ಗಾಗ 7
1150/2760 ೧೦೧7೨7] by either | 2 et a
ತುಳ me] Detichomiets, fs ೪ಬ :
per qualifications & experience nsuranceicompany | receipt of the
Haid down int EOGs of PHEBY ಸ 1101778107 10
Riscssment of affécted area it bic. a ತತ್ತ #
erm of % of area sown. ಕ ಗ. '|10017 10 days of the
5 | ಟೋ Se en einen oot
. 3 — =| abpaintment of the loss
we Individdal level'assessment of ‘oily by the =| “assessor by the
loss (in case the affected area | “Insirance Company ಲ ಟಿ
is < 25% of the total Bplock level |
cropped ೫/೦2) ಬ |. (310005 Officer. |
ಜಟ ಚಾ ಜ್‌
Verification of the details “atthe | {the Ee
affected insured farmer(s) 1೦7/3]. company | Within 7 days of the
the bank using company’s web intimation of loss,
link or on NCIP.
7 i Within 45 days from
receipt of loss assessment
ಲ report subject to receipt of
Rs + ಆಗಲು ಗಗಳಗ to affected Insurance company | at-least advance
ಸು Government share of
! subsidy (1" instalment of
both State & Central
Government).
www. pmiby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 172 ---
SSO | =
121
Action required to ~~ Action to be Schedule for taking
be taken taken by action
Data of the Loss
assessment report finalized by i or ‘i
DLJC, and admissible claims thin 7 days of the =
3 |willbe uploaded onthencip | Msuencecompany) survey,
against the farmer from whom
the loss intimation was received.
Protocol for Area based Assessment: If affected area >25% of total cropped Area:
Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
be taken oi |f 2 taken by action
Fulfillment of eligibility of © i ey ue =
localized calamiliés/losses- 1 | ಸ್ಯ
on area ase ಕ | | ಕ್ಯ
assessment. affected — | |) @,
areags >25% of the 1001 © © |/ ಇ ೯
cropped aia) is to be decided |... . %
baSed onthe occurrence of a a
|: Indicatgrs:- Ss a ಸ್ಯ
| « WidesSpread excess 12171211 , 3] ಚ 1
“| +Wide‘pread flooding! |. F Definitions& = ೬
|| inundation. | RTS interprelations of p
= + Wide-Spread dloud burst '.. ೫] [1201021015 would be:
| . and lanuslide & ಹ ee applied as per IMD ii
| -Wide-spread hailstory DLAC | ಸೆಕ್ಸೆ ಕ
ಆಜ ಚ | “a | epee ELLA
4: Any.other defined ೧21/೩ |; ¢ ೬ (ಸಸ ಗೆ ಕೆ
[೧0೧68801 nie ray io ನಟ... ಜೆಂ oy ಗ. ಜಡ 120 or more
Widespread effectand losses, ತ್‌್‌ /| deviation tharithe
if ಯು the crop,” 7 __| Long Period’Average.
Image 1 [12 111.
based outputs 10 6್ಶ ೬. ತ i
provided by 1580/5೫ | een
MNCFC or any other ಟಂ
Government approved
agency, Government crop .
condition reports, and ಪ್ರ
media reports, etc. ಸ
Keeping watch over the ಹ್‌ ನ Meeting of the DLJC to be
breaching of set triggers of ಸ ಇ ಾ` ! | convened. Relevant data | -
proxy indicators as mentioned Revenue ೦೫೦೫ to be placed before the
above.Meeting of the ೧.1೦ to (Le. convener Committee. The decision
be convened on the breaching | oF 51 Jc), should be taken within 7
of the any one. days from the occurrence
——— — Ww pony gore @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 173 ---
co Action required to ~~ Action to be Schedule for taking
ಸು. be taken taken by action
of the above triggers of adverse scene event
| of unseasonal rainfall, mand communicated throug
cyclone or cyclonic a letter for conducting loss
i i assessment surveys.
rainfall, and hailstorm. ಗದ್ದ ಗನ ಇತ್ತ
Physical loss assessment Within 15 days of the letter’
3 survey to be carried out for To be done by received for carrying out
at least the sample size 0.೦, the loss assessment
(mentioned in Para 21.5.7). surveys by the DLJC.
Written notice within 7
days to be submitted to
8 the Chairman-DLMC with
if proofs/data/reports
i eee stantiating the claim.
Dispute/Disagréement i Ehe'DLMC to review the
raised.by anyStakeholder _ 2 | reportSleyidence and _
on the’ 5 ೮1108 Any resolve the.dispute within
on ye Prof Stakeholder. | 7 dais. In 6850 the dispute
ಜ್‌ “oho al is unresolved, the affected
Extent of assessed loss. ಗ ಗ
ತ ಷ್ಣ stakeholder ೧80772೮ an
3 \ appeal to State Nodal
Ay Fi ಥೆ Department, thereafter to
| i i ಕ STAC, as per the process
ಸ | “ee eo definediin the Grievance
| ti . ಗ್ರ ಹೆ ಎ ಯ ಭೂ
2 Re TM Gne month from the
ತ Finalization of of likely he | && ರ್ಕೌ | date ofthe DLIC 1000೯10.
losses & Rayol ® ‘ instfgnce _ | Garry,out the 1055...
ef * ಕ | ಳು / | sibject to receipt oftat least
| ie | 1. | advance Goverment share
)\Payment to eligible a) o> # | SfSubsiay (1*instalment of
farmers ಕ ee ©, |fPoth the State & the Central
Data ೦! 1055 assessment “WL 05; 4
1758296 by LIC and = ee &
oo? 7 ರ claims willbe ಗ್ಲೋ??? ಲ್ನ? of
upload the NCIP against _& Company .! iS the survey.
farmer fom wn 1063... | ae MR ಥ್‌
intimation has béenreceived: |) hg
*Note1: Crop damage should have occurred on ೨೦೦೦0೧! of inundation, mere water
fogging without corresponding crop loss will not be considered.
. *Note2: Inundation peril is not applicable in the case of hydrophilic crops like Paddy,
Sugarcane, Jute & Mesta.
*Note3: If affected area is more than 25% of the cropped area of notified crop in notified
“ insurance unit then the losses are not considered as individual and are presumed
fo be widespread, therefore claim (0 all eligible insured farmers (who have given
intimation/for whom intimation has been received)would be paid ad-hoc for
such lasses.
www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 174 ---
21.5.11 Illustration yr
+ A-SumInsured fora crop=Rs.30,000
+ B-% area affected out ofthe total area insured = 100% .
+ ©-% cost of input incurred till the occurrence of event on the basis of sowing
date & due to operation of insured peril as pre defined by the State .
Governmentin the notification = 60%
ಶ್ರ D - % loss estimated basis joint physical survey of insurance company and
district official = 80%
+ E-Claims payable under this cover =Ax B x Cx D = Rs. 30,000 x 100% x 60%
x80% = Rs. 14,400 .
21.6 Post-Harvest Losses: i a ೯ i
21.6.1 Proven made for assessment of loss on inidividllal plot basis in the case
of occurrence of hailstorm, cyclone, cyclonic rains and Unseagonal rains resulting
in,damage to harvested cr ‘lying in the field in ‘cut and,spréad'/small bundled
condition depending on nature of the crop in that area kept solely to dry upto a
maximum period of eks (14 days) from harvesting. or indemnification of
© post-harvest crop lossesisthe provision’ of damage of harvested Crops due to
| unseasonal rains shall triggér when the unseasonal rainfall is more thah.20% over
# long:period average forthe. month for that sub-district/district. However, this is
{/ — subjéct to confirmation ¢ damage’in the joint survey to} be conducted by
© concemed State Gov t. and Insurance Company. The|States/UTS have to 3
& comipulsorily nattify the erops tobe included undegpost-harvest 105505 along with
the Rarvestipig Window ॥) the Bid, Document, Notifica lion and on the NGIP. The
A crops hot falling 11 der the aforesaid category/not iticlud din the tender shall not be ಜೆ
21.6.2, Eligibility criteria ti 0 boi 7 fee Py
21.6.2.1.\ This Add-on cover Wil onl), béavailabledF this cover is notified by/the State
 Govammedta ss ee ರ್ಥ 1೫1 ಗಾ“!
21.6.2.2 % Available to allinsured farm ers, al farm unit level affected by above mentioned
‘perils in a Notified Insurance Unit, growing notified crops for which insurance have
beenavalled. 4. 4 ರ ನೆ
21.6.2.3 Available for all notified crops Which has been declared eligible for post-harvest
losses 25 fer the Government nolification and damaged by specified perils during
the process ofdrying in the field in "cut and spread condition"/small bundled
conditions upto a period.of 14 days from harvest: States/UTs shall also notify the
normal harvesting period ofeach 6೦0.
21.6.2.4 Proxy-Indicators: Rainfall data/hailstorm incidences substantiated by Idcal media
reports or reports of the Agriculture/ Revenue Department supported by media
reports and other evidence. =
21.6.3 Loss assessment procedure:
21.6.3.1 Time and method of reporting the loss/claims:
A. The State Government would notify crop-wise and the agro-climatic zone or
. district-wise normal harvesting dates/harvesting period during which, this
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY 9

--- Page 175 ---
193
provision could be invoked, In the case of any event occurring beyond these
dales/this period, this provision shall not be applicable under any
circumstances.

x B. Immediate intimation (within 72 hours) by the insured farmer to Insurance
Company through “Crop Insurance App” or any available channel of reporting
as detailed in Para 21.6.3.2 below.

C. _Intimation must contain delails of insured farmer's name, affected survey
number-wise insured crop and acreage affected, Farmer's Application No as
‘on NCIP, his/her Mobile Number, etc. KCC A/c No. (in case of loanee farmer)
or Saving bank Account (in case of Non-Loanee farmer as declared at the
time of applying for crop insurance) for identification and verification purpose.
D. Premium paymentyerification to be done from the portal and in case required,
may be verified from the bank and bank shall provide the payment verification
withingiéxt 48 hours of receiptofsuchrequest. (ಶ್ವಾ
೯. ಕೈಕೆ... based"Crop Insurance App” may, be sed for reporting an
i gidence of a post harvest providing details 0110/0111 atityde and pictures.
21.6.3.2 hanpel of reporting, i.e. Whom to be reported: Intimatian may be.given within
72 hours by farmer either, through the Crop Insurance App or directly to the
{7 Insufance Company through the dedicated toll-free number, Cen\ alized Call
ಕ Centre number, concerned bank branch, local agriculture department,
| Government./district officials or through the Insurance Gompany's: toll-free
° number. The figst mode of intimation should be through the Grop Insurafice App,
centtalised gollFree Hunter followed by igithation gprough: Insurance
ಕ ompany's {oll-free number for conducting the individual level investigations. Crop
loss intimation may also be forwarded through bank or districlofficials to Insurance
: ಆ ಗ concerned bank/intermediary wobld 1 ured détails like
crop insured igsured premium debited and 0316 ೧1 debit & remitiance for
conducting ಟ್ಟ ಟ್‌ ಆನ ಬುಷ್‌
21.6.3.3 Reporting ೦1೩566 will B&,done primarily hrough the€rop Insurance App and the
Centralised Toll-Free Number (once operationali ed), along with ottjer channels.
21.6.3.4 ಟ್ಟು... intimation forwarded through’the conceredgbank branch or gw
Govetment ~ officials, the | ieyrance Company must be‘notified within next
21.6.3.5 _Intimation of cropslosses 15 comp uisory for indWidual insured farmers through
various channels in case oftfosses due to specified Post Harvest Calamities. If the
intimation of crop losses due to specified calamities is received by the State
Government then they will enter the dala of those intimations in a form that can be
» uploaded in the NCIP or provide the same to Insurance Company along with copies
; of the intimations received. The Insurance Company will upload this data in the
NCIP. The number of intimations of the farmers will be compared with the number of
insured farmers ina notified |U.
21.6.3.6 1! the intimations of losses as compared to the total cropped area for that
particular crop is less than 25%, then a individual survey of all the farmers shall be
done. This assessment shalll be done for each insured crop individually in the IU.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 176 ---
೬. 4
21.6.3.7 _Ifthe loss intimation in the IUis more than 25% for the cropped / sown area, then the
survey of farmers will be done through a random selection of the farmers from the
intimation list using the random number table. In this case, the losses will not be
considered as individual and will be presumed widespread. Therefore, the claim to
all eligible insured farmers (who have given intimation/for whom intimation has +
been received) would be paid ad-hoc.
21.6.3.8 The tentative sample size would be as under: .
Intimation (cropped area) 7 survey
೬೦551780 25% A\ll Intimations would be surveyed
>25% to <=50% 25% of the Intimations would be surveyed
> 50% 30% of the Intimations would be surveyed
3 dofral re ಡೊ
21.6.4 Comsenertany isonet red for claiin assessment:
ee ie |] .
21.641 ಗಿ cy spp ppimaton 1077 alor all relevant{dotuments is necessary for
initiation’ ofloss assessment. at ent of claims, Héwwever, if information
ಲ ಇ e columns is not readily available, a semi-fillad,formimay be sent to the
1151172768 Company and | i 10 7days of the loss, the form,with complete
for 0 1.1... % %
21.6.4.2 tis the responsibilty of the Insufaince Company to ensure availability of, sufficient
{) number of claim forms at the bank branch/local Government officials level. Any
{other additional documents.can be collected ತಗ (ಗ the time of
3... losssassessment by the representative/surveyor of the Insurance Company. :
| Insupance Company shall complete” all SormalitigSefor payment of such claims
| substantiating’ the ocourrente of the losS and the seyerity of the 1055, if any with
ಲ = oin local newspaper cuilfings and any other ಬ valid source. 4
21.6.4.3) IMO report \edia 1೨೧೦೧1, local newspaper cuttings, etc Ganibe used to substantiate
4 ‘occurrence of loss éventa dsevent of thelosg;ifany. | (|
21.6.5 ಕ್ಲಿ. Appointment ೦11.0೨೨ ಸಿ೨2 0)[110 ಗೆ 0 27೦೮ Company:
21.6.5.1 “A The loss assessors wollld be appéinted by te Insurance Company for
assessment of Post-harvestlasses arid ensure strict adherence to provisions. The
appointed loss assessors ®hould) possess the following experience and
qualifications: 2... 1 2501
+ Diploma/degree in any ಆ ಲ ್‌್ಪ2 overt sence
or a bachelors degree 17 0010 ure and al subjects with one year
+ Retired Government officials of Agriculture/ Horticulture/ Extension
. Department.
.
+ Retired Bank officials with experience of crop loaning or KCC. ತ
21.6.5.2 For compliance under the above provisions the ICs would utilize the empanelled
loss assessors for using their services as and when required. ಶಿ
21.6.5.3 The loss would be jointly assessed by a team authorized by the Joint Committee. It
may comprise of the loss assessors appointed by the insurer, block level
agriculture officer and the concerned farmer. Loss accessed by the Joint
www.pmiby.gov.in 6
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 177 ---
1೨95
Committee at each individual field level should be compulsorily uploaded on NCIP
for claim calculation of eligible insured farmers.
21.6.6 Time frame for loss assessmentand submission of report:
21.6.6.1 Appoint mentof the loss assessor within 48 hours from the receipt of information.
ಸ 21.6.6.2 .. 0552550558707[1೧ be completed within next 10 days.
21.6.6.3 Claim settlement/payment to the farmers to be completed in next 15 days (subject
to receipt of premium) from the time of receipt of loss assessment report.
21.6.6.4 Conditions:
21.6.6.4.1. 110೮ disbursement/sanction of loan without the receipt/debit of premium before
the occurrence of insured peril would not make a farmer eligible for a claim.
21.6.6.4.2 When affeetitiarea is limited up to 25% of the total cr@pped area in the ೧00706 1U,
the 4 of eligible farmers would be assessed individually provided they have
paidithe premium prior tothe occurrence of an insu ance peril. Intimation is a
pre-condition to get the benefit for localized claim. Intimation at the time of survey
Would also be considered. ( ನ್ಡ %
21.6.6.4.3/ Whabected area under a notified cropis more than 25% of the total cropped area
| inanotified 1, all the eligible farmers (who have taken insurance for the notified
(crop; which has been damaged, and informed about the occurrence of a calamity in
- | the farm within the stipulated dine pig potted IU) will be entitiéd to avail financial
; Support undeggpost harvest 1059... InsurancegSompany Would ೧೩1೦೬ 1೧ the
| percentage of foss by conducting requisite numbet of gample Surveys as defined in
: / the delailed’protoco [1 entahd claim settlement.
Shai Be,
21.6.6.4.4 The eligibility of claim setllemient$h i ed based onthe outcome ofthe joint
be loss a a ment “Surve = cai t by representa lives of the Insurance
__ Company, District ‘Auministration/Staté Government nodal department and
farmers. Fuplher if affected atea isimore tian 25% ofthe total cropped) area and
‘there is dispute/disa Seeman beiwéen the sta ‘cholders regfraing the
-quantum/extent of the loss feported bythe Joint Los§ Assessment committee, the
claim calculation. will be do: @ technology derived solutions involving
ಜು weatheriremote-sensing indices ajang with the loss. ಟ್ಟ surveys with
- weightage of 70%: 30% respe ಡಲ for asse sment a | eval fion of final extent
of loss: The acceptance of the teghniology driven extent of logs will be binding on all
stakeholdetag. ಬ... 01 60. 1... ಸ್‌
21.6.6.4.5 If the on crop )/5137050/22007(3 ೧೯೩), baséd°claims is more than the claims
calculated against Post-harvest losses, the difference in the claims will be payable
to the affected farmers. If the claim calculated against Post-harvest loss is higher
than the affected farmers will not be eligible fora recovery.
+ 21.6.6.4.6 776 pay-out under the cover would be disbursed by the Insurance Company only
after the receipt of 2nd Instalment of the Goverment share of premium subsidy
(both State & Central Government Share).
21.6.6.4.7 The Insurance Company would disburse the claim, if payable, within 15 days of the
receipt of the loss survey report,
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 178 ---
1%
21.6.6.4.8 Ifthe end of season final admissible claim based on the yield data is more than the
claim under this cover, the balance would be paid at the end of the season under
wide-spread claims.
21.6.7 11351721100
+ Sum Insured fora ೦7೦೧7 ೧5,50,000
+ Affected area of the 1.U.= 80% (eligible for sample survey)
+ Assessed loss in the affected area/fields due to operation of insured
peril= 50%
+ Claims Payable under Post Harvestloss = Rs.50,000*50% = Rs.25,000
+ End of season reported:shortfalll in yield=60% in respect of the Threshold
Yield Je 2a 923
+ Cigif estimated based on the ‘area approach’ at IU level = Rs.50,000 » 60%
ಈ ಕ್ಕೆ 200 ea i 1|| | ,
ಸೆ Balance payable at the end 0568507 = Rs. 30,000 - Rs. 25,000 = Rs. 5,000
24.6.7.1 Detailed Procedure and Timelines for payment of Post Harvest Lossig mentioned
& inTable 11 below: ಲ್ಲ a
| on required to | > Action to be Schedule for taking
| ibe taken os. | taken by 13000 1.
11170773001] may be given within 72 | 1 ೪ 1 ಕ :
ಚ ಟ್‌ ಭಟ್ಟ ಟ್‌ |
©] | through Mobile Application, the Ble & a
centralized Toll-Free Number, |" clk # a ೫
directly to the Insurance ಳಾ ALY | ie
"Company 11೦001 ‘it's dedicated 1, 3 DV Bee
= ytoll-free number or through the ““e 4 4 we
concemed bank, local agticulltre |" ks of
lofficials. However) the first mode™|‘may intimate using |f ees
Ofintimation’should be either ರಲ | Mobile, far dline or (| (ತೆ
Insurance App or centralised ...' ocialgnedia.. oy
Tollfree Number. Ss. Farrm@r should ತೆ
Rie ಬ ಜರ ಜ್ರ ಇಳ his bank: ತೆ
0295 the intimation has been feacdount number _
given through concerned bank | {leah account for _| Within’72 hours from
branch or Government officials, | Iau ಗ 6೦೧೮೬767೦೮ of peril.
the intimation shobild,be given’ | Savings account for}
lwithin next 48 hours | ABnoanee farmer)
Insurance ೮೦77೧೨೧೪... 9085೧017911
| number generated
Intimation about occurrence of from the portal at
hailstorm, cyclone, cyclonic rains | the time of
and unseasonal rains may be intimation. ಆ
given immediately after the event
and within 14 days after the
normal harvest date as notified |
in the State notification and
supported by related information
sourced from thelMD / local
media and Reports of Agriculture
/ Revenue Departments. ;
www.pmiby.gov.in ಲಿ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 179 ---
1೨9- ಯ
Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
be taken taken by action
Forwarding information / Bank/PACS, Local | Within 48 hours from the
intimation of the farmer(s) to Agriculture receipt of the information /
i 2 ಜಾಗರ ರಂಗಳ by either | Denartnant intimation from the
ಚೂ ಟೂ | District officials. | farmer(s).
* Appointment of loss assessor as ಹಾ Within 48 hours from the
= per qualifications & experience company receipt the of information /
laid down in the OGs of PMFBY. intimation.
೫ Assessment of affected area in ೧.೦
term of % of total cropped area. Within 10 days of the
ಸ Jointly by the loss appointment of the loss
Individual level assessment of blo
ಕ್ರ. | loss in case the affected area | 355000 block levell_ assessor by the company.
is < 25% of the,tatal ೦೧೧೮೮. | SATCU
ತೆ farmer(s). | Ma,
Verification ofthe details of the ೫08 fithin ಗಶ್ಚ್ರ/ಇ of the
6 affected 1750/೨೮ farmer(s) from 601/2 7] ‘OfJoss.
bank using company's web link 10 (6 %
oF on 1೦ | od us
7 g gee Within'45 days from
| i a receipt of loss asSessment
, 7 || Claim-payment to affected 41 ifn ಜೀ ಟ್‌
By ಟಟ ಜಟ ಕ ee ೫ 5೦೦5/0]/ (2೧6 instalment of
' ಸ 1) both State & ೦೬॥
| Data of nal oss & y | ea)
| assessmentteport finalized b' by, oe]
g |} DLIC, anda dinissible Claims ॥ Insurahed | Within 7 days of the
| be uploaded onithe NCIPéagains VY | Survey.
| the farmer fromiWhom 1055 ಥ್ರ. Vissi Bas
intimation was received. ಗಗನ 3
Re gue Y fay 8
Protocol for Are: based Assessment: if tect ¢ ಗೆ ೫೦೩72೫೬ of total cropped Area:
ction required to 4 tobe = chedule for taking
sine] ರಾ ಟಯರ್‌
Fulfillment of 10 oe ae a
harvest losses on ೫/೨೫ 0ರ | oss interpretations of proxy
loss assessment (1.6. 81160190 1೫11 indicators would be
area is >25% of the total cropped applied as per IMD's
area) is to be’ decided based on guidelines as below: <
the occurrence of any one of ಇ
+ 1 the Proxy Indicators:- %age w.rt. LPA.
+ Wide-spread excess rainfall. Apnoea Wadia
. * Wide-spread flooding/ Parameter: (+) 20 or more
inundation. ನ deviation than the
+ Wide-spread cyclonic rains. Long Period Average.
www.pmfby.gov.in @ %
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 180 ---
12%
Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
be taken taken by action
+ Wide-spread hailstorm/hailing.
+ Losses impacting > 25% of the bs
crop sown area”,
Supported by Satellite .
Image and Satellite Index
based outputs to be
provided by ISRO/SAC,
MNCEFC or any other
Government approved
agency, Government crop
condition reports, and 5 1 oi ಕ
media reports, etc. 111 1||
ಥ್‌ Ted 1188೧9 of the DLIC to be
Keeping, wWatciever the i i § convened. Relevant data
| breachil G oft riggers of | eee __ | t0'be plaged before the
proxyindicalbrs as mentioned’ | District Agnculture / | CommitteexThe decision
above. Meéfing of the DLIG | Horticulture / | should be taken within 7
2 ape cox jened on the & Revenue Officer deve yr the occurrence
breaching 0! any one of the». i.e.convener | of seasonal event
triggers of unseasonal >: & pric). &communicated through a
11917131, Cyclone or 0/೦೦ |...
{\ rainfall and hailstorm/hailingiits, |. ಸವಾಯಿ ಬ Sots
| ತ al JES. | a | 85505571071 surveys in the
|| ಕ (ಸಿ | listed IUS. |
ಗ ತ್ತ ont ಗ
{| Physicalilgss 2534170೧! | ge 1 [6 days of the letter
survey to'be caftied 0 be done teceived for carrying out ie
|| (mentione rn pees ಬಟ್‌. ಕೆ uy by the DLC.
eee ಲಕ್ಷಿ 7 | Says to be submitted to
ಡಿ canal ee ಇ ives ~ the Chairman-DLMC with
ce th 73.) /,|-Substantiating the claim.
on the Sees ae RRA ಓಂ ಭಜ vagrie dispute within
ಸೊಗ! RAR ~ | S¥gsStakeholder. | 7 days: In case the dispute|
ಕ ಭಜ Ben Be ಪ್ರಾ ಸ್ಟಾ esolved, the affected
xtent of assessegloss. | WAN.) Stakeholder can make an
i 0 ಹ್‌ appeal to State Nodal
i Department, thereafter to
STAC, as per the process
defined in the Grievance
eu Redressal mechanism. ~
‘Assessment of likely losses Within one month from the
and finalization of dais date of the 01.10 letter to
payment based on the ಆಗು out ihe loss
bee assessment surveys. ಆ
joint survey. Insurance subject to receipt of full
Company ಗಳಗ 2 =
} sul stalment
ತ Gov = ಡು
Goverment).
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 181 ---
194
SI. No. Action required to Action to be Schedule for taking
ಸ be taken taken by action
Data of loss assessment
finalized by DLUC and
8 ಹ admissible claims will be Insurance Within 7 days of
uploaded on the NCIP Company the survey.
| against farmer from whom
loss intimation has been
| _ received.
22 Participation of Loss Assessors/Evaluators for Loss Assessment
under of the Scheme:
224 EmpanelmentCriteriag |
22.1.1 The ೮ 0 1 ಪೇ ಲ fifancial and infrastructural
strength sufficient ಯಕ haying Diploma in.any subject with minimum
2 yea frelevant expel ience ೧೯ a degree in Agriculture;and allied subjects with
one yedr relevant experience in crop loss assessment and having desired
‘operational capabilities shall be empanelled by the MoA&FW. This will be based on
the detailed criteria/SOP of empanelment of such agencies for carrying out the crop
loss (evaluation/assessment across the country and shall be individually
engaged/selected by the concemed State GovernmenVInsurance Company for
| __ implementation of PMFBY. Agencies having infrastructure/capacity to, provide
technical services like Drones/RST/mobile/web applications will be given priority.
22.1.2, Once Joss asgBsSment/éValuation agency has beém empanelled by the DAC&FW,
| itwillibe considered ಕ alate pan o'Participate/engage with the
ಶೆ a concerned’ State Government/Insurance Gompany to undertake loss
a evaluationiassessr ent of | es\under the p gvisions of the Scheme, fiowever
(00006 1501219 Company will be responsible fo Maintaining the gbality of
“services being deliveted by suchagencies!)
22.1.3 ¥ Once empane ಹಿದಿ ಸ್ಟ್‌ sich agencies will be evaluated every
“\, season against vital pafameters defining 507/00 and quality standards as
10901006 below by the Comifpittee headed by Joint Secretary/Addltional Secretary
ಯ and the non-performing agencies 512100 ಡ್‌ fora period
of 2cogsecutive Seasons. ಸ್ವ 1.1.85
22.1.4 Detailed,guidelines for the 0! ipanelment and ar iof’of loss assessment
agencies shall be prepared by the Committee com of members from the
IASRI, NSSO3MNCEC, National Insurance Academy (NIA), Economic and
Statistical AdvisormQES,. selected [೮೧7೦೩1 5 from the empanelled IC,
GIC-Re, selected representatives from State Nodal Departments etc. These
guidelines will enable empanelment/de-empanelment of agencies based on set
performance parameters to maintain desired quality and standardization of
protocols and processes.
22.1.5 As loss assessment is a vital activity under the Scheme and forms the basis of
claims settlement, any malpractice/manipulation/misreporting will be taken very
- seriously, and appropriate legal and administrative action will be taken against the
agencies and individuals associated with such agencies. Loss assessment
agencies shall follow the guidelines issued by the concerned authorities and will
share the details of individuals involved along with their mobile numbers with the
State ೧೦೪೧7777971 27ರ district administration. :
www.pmfby.gov.in.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ

--- Page 182 ---
190
Table 12: Criteria for Performance Evaluation and Ranking of Loss
Assessment Agencies
Service Level Maciel
S.No | Agreements | Source of data lonitoring | Periodicity | Points criteria
(SLA's) method ಘಃ
Computed from Based on the} If 51% to 75%:
7 008 the CCE upload | Co-observance | CCE data 3 points .
Co-observance 2t2 in National |" of cces. | complied for | If less than
fou each season.| 50%: 5 points.
List of mid-term/ Loss
Mid-term/ | Localized loss | Assessment | ಟ್ಟ | i partial timelines
localized Loss| assessmenvpost | _ with the calculated | 2re-met: 3 points
Assessment/ harvest loss timelines each If no timelines
Post Harvest assessment prescribed Sanson are met : 5 points.
Loss reported on thé | in the OGs. ಕ
Assessment. 0೦೧ Insurance §
Availabilioot |2” <i | Details of the ಳ್‌
ರ್‌ ಟ್‌ ಹ ಟ | manpower ಓ ರ ್ಪ
requisite 4) *, | submitted on | Atleast 15; before 15 days:
aguisite «| Insurance Portal m | Pere 15
\anipower A NCIP and days before, ಇಷ್ಟಿ points
3 Ras ಸಃ and verified by ಕ eS ಕೆ
fal each the concaned verified by the enrolmerit}, Af not
& blocks? ಗರ concemed | cut-off date. |}; 2000111106 at all:
f equivaler Company. _ Insurance 1; . 5 points.
___ levers 3 Company. Is 4
1 -Organizip = ಟ್ಟ ಲ | if not conducted 3
|... training] | ಟ್‌ Gast 15 | 15 days prior to
| capacity, port from | ಹ ಗಳೆ the enrolment
4 @. buildings | © Insurance | ono sae ie start off} cut-off date: ೩
11.0%8610 | || [೧ >| “Department | BP SS = iff
| workshops) || Company. >. ಟಟ | ಟುಟ 3 poigis
ಆಯ | aL She ಬ ಬೆ nel eonguctes
9556055, be a Re. ಯ ಕ" Bg 3 eed ಶ್ರ ints.
Geos 220] Bist of of ಯ PTS 4 AR ba tenon up
ಕ್‌ their conta | ಆಕೆ thin 30 | for tie oye
District office | details provided) DistrictSftices |days'from the| ಯಂಗ opening:
established in| _ to the State “hare established| award of ಟ್ರ xt ing:
all the districts! Department by |}. andstatied. | workibid | 4 fail
a Insurance (ಟ್ರ & opening. ಶ್ರ 4 “a
Os, Company. RES ape OF not set-up at
a. i | __ all: 5 points.
22.2 Performance seVérity.of Low Assessors”
Threshold Limit Severity
| 1% of total service charges for the concerned agency for the season.
9-14 points 2% of total service charges for the concerned agency for the season.
15- 22 points 3% of the total service charges for the concemed agency for the season.
>= 23 points 5% of total service charges for a season, cancellation of renewal/ .
continuation for next season and de-empanelment.
False intimations | Investigations against the loss assessment agency to be initiated& if
on any of the found guilty, the agency may face cancellation of renewal/continuation of}
above parameters} work for the next season and de-empanelment.
ಎಮ ಗಂಗ ವಾಸ 9
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 183 ---
18]

23 Procedure for Settlement of Claims to the farmers:
23.1 The Insurance Company should have received the tentative final share of
Government subsidy (2nd instalment), both Central and State, on the basis of the
ಸ business statistics finalized on the Portal after the 30 day period specified for auto
approval of applications to enable the settlement of Actual Yield-based claims
arising out of wide-spread calamity as well 5. post-harvest losses. However, for
- the settlement of On-Account payment of claims, advance subsidy (1st instalment)
of 50% of 80% of the respective Central/State Government share in the
corresponding previous season should be released for the season/area(s) in the
case of claims against prevented sowing/planting/germination and localized

calamity.
23.2 Threshold Yield for all notified crops at each IU level shall compulsorily be a part of
the notification for the season ind:shall not change at any point during that season.
Crop-IU_ wise historical, “ಇ Viel |, Calamity Years, Indemnity level and
Threshold eld shall be Uploaded on the NCIP by,the concerned State Nodal
Departméitt at the time of the release of the notification Gly and shall be verified
and accepted by the ಲಲ Company withir the given timelines. In
ಇ ‘to er void ಗಗ of the information at 016101೨1161, threshold
shall not be a 1! public Information before the payment of claims
_ forthat season. Py ees 4% ಶ್‌
23.3 7 The DLMC will be required to ನಚ gino details of crop loss as per the Joint
£’ Loss Survey conducted by ಯ intermediate loss events viz. prevented
‘7 _ sowing/planting/germination failure &MideSeason Adversity on the NCIP. Similarly,
© the Crop loss details for (ತಂ and post-harvest events Shall be
. entered by the.concemed Insurance any on the Portal. Once the Actilal Yield
| ಯ evel ಗ the Portal, , hall be Verified and approvediby the
concerned; Disl ಜ್‌] ‘or thase ‘experiments which were
3 conse i i, mobile application, the Actual Yield data (fesult of
2 optimi: of CCE and 2 Step Yield Estimation 110658 75691/0617 Para 18.3.2)
shall loaded\by the concemed’ Distriéf administration or Stale nodal
[ಸ್ರ departm the NIP itself. All the estimations of Yield / crop losses should
. “4 be com) ಜು ಇ 1 1 ಸ jated timeline on the 101೧ by the
* concerned stakeholders as envisaged/above andithe admissible claims will
ಡಂ ಮ the NCIP. The stattis of claims/and the claim amount will
accordingly be shared with the farmers through NCIP. ೫4
23.4 loss reports and Actual.Yield.data shall be a ed/revertéd (in gase of any
ಈ ಓಜ “on the auth ಎ ಯು ಪಚ by the
Insurance, Company. ‘Based onthe loss reports and actial yield data, eligible
claims shaillbe calculated througt{the 11017 and a igly the payment of claims
ಜು ೦೮7೮ Insurance Company and remitted directly into
the beneficiary accotint:as:per'the_ pre-det timelines. The application-wise
payment details viz. amount, reference number, date etc. shall be
entered/synchronised with the National Crop Insurance Portal for future reference
4 and audit purposes,
.

: 23.5 In case of widespread calamity (end of season claims), once yield data is
received/finalized from State Government. as per the decided cut-off-dates,,
claims will be calculated on the National Crop Insurance Portal on the basis of the

: declarations! approved proposals & covered farmer's data received from the banks
/ channel partners / insurance intermediaries for each notified area and crops.
Accordingly, the claims will be approved by the Competent Authority of the
implementing Insurance Company and alll claims will be initiated through Public
Financial Management System (PFMS).

www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 184 ---
2

23.6 Incase the CCE data submitted through CCE Agri App is not approved within the
stipulated timelines, itwill be auto- approved and used for claim calculation. In case
of non-submission of Actual Yield (AY) data by the State Government to the
implementing IC within the stipulated timelines, Synthetic Yield data computed
through a technology-based solution will be used for calculating admissible claims
and subsequent settlement of claims to the eligible farmers. The cut-off date for
submission of yield data to ICs is normally two months after completion of
harvesting of a particular crop. ತ

23.7 In case of farmers covered by financial Institutions, claims shall be released only
electronically through PFMS directly into insured farmer's given bank account,
followed by details containing claim particulars, to individual Bank Branches/ Nodal
Banks. Bank Branch should display particulars of claim disbursal on the notice
board to enable spread of awareness and inclination amongst farming community
through crop insurance. Insurance Company is required to compulsorily upload the
claim details against each insured farmer on National Grop Insurance Portal.

23.8 In casef6f farmers covered through intermediaries, payabléiclaims will be directly
credjléd 16’the saving bank accounts through PFMS ofthe @oncemed insured
fain ಜ್‌ details of the claims will be intimated to them throughiSMS. The list of

gbenefidiaries and the claims amount shall also be uploaded af NCIPimmediately.

239 £ In pe | of claims under prevented/failed sowing, localized calamities, post-harvest

ತ. 105565; Insurance Company will process the claims after assessment and shall
{> 1610850 the ೮121775 25 per detailed procedure given in the relevant sections above.
23.10 || 775 2877 settlement intimation shall be sent to each beneficiary farmer. through
ಭ + - SMS from the NGIP. State Government, CSCs, Banksi& ICs sfiall ensure accuracy
(1 of théidatasbefore hand viz. Threshold Yield, AclualVieldj Insured Area, Sum $
Insured, and Indemnity levels etc. Responsibilify of any | Tor, omissions and
“\  misrepeiting shalliie with the concerned State Nodal Department and Insurance
“Company, State Goyemment & ICs shall resolve all the grievances of the insured
“4 farmers and other stakeholders inthe shortestpossiblefine. - Fj
23.11. In any situation, the State, Governmentgcannot re gpen! ré-calculate claims, 30
“S. days from thetime of claiin settlement for notified crop(s) at the;hotified unit.
"However, all States/UTs may, compulsorily audit the calculation afid payment of
ಪಾಲ claims to the eligible farmers'at (Fee and.complete the prdcess within one
yeareln the case of disputed clai ub-standard claims, dueito erroneous data,
the matter may be referred to evel Coordination Committee (SLCCYSTAC
within ಜಯ” ಜ್‌ (TAC), if required,
for consideration decision. ಲ ಸ

23.12 All the documents of the farme ining to payment of claims shall be verified
through PFMS and payment will be done through PFMS only. In the case of a
failed claims payment to banks it will be processed through the Aadhaar Enabled

Payment System (AEPS). 5
24 Important Conditions /Clauses Applicable for Coverage of Risks:
24.1 ICs should have received the premium for coverage either from the bank, channel
partner, insurance intermediary or directly. In case of any loss in transit due to
negligence by these agencies or non-remittance of premium by these agencies,
the concemed bank/intermediaries shall be liable for payment of claims.
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ©

--- Page 185 ---
18೩

24.2 in. case of any substantial misreporting by nodal bank /branch with 76500010
loanee farmers coverage which may include incorrect insured and sown acreage
and survey number details, bank account details & IU details etc., the ೧೦೧೦೮7೮೮
bank only shall be liable for such misreporting.

is 24.3 Mere sanctioning/disbursement of crop loans and the submission of
proposals/declarations and remittance of premium by farmer/bank, without explicit

é intent to raise the crop, will not constitute acceptance of risk by Insurance
Company.

25 Acreage discrepancy:

25.1 Some areas in the past have reported excess insurance coverage vis-a-vis
planted/ sown acreage, leading to aver-insurance. Any discrepancy in coverage of
excess area should be handled at the individual applicant level along with their
Aadhaar Number to Fs hy i of farmers with genuine insurance
coverage. Allsuitable measures shall be taken by,eencemed stakeholders for
de-duplication’ with the help i Aaa Number, 1100 ಗ್ರಾ ೧7೮9, banks records,
revene retords and propesal/ioan application of insured fatmers. The details of
individual insured farmers are being collected on National, Cropinsurance Portal
{or de-duplication. Integration of digitized land records With the Portal is being

tiated to resolve the problem of multiple coverage on the'same parcel of land.
Alternatively, details of the land.record of each insured farmer istalso being
captired on the Portal processing and de-duplication of the farmers.
Any. misreporting in deceage will be verified by the concerned ಹ
: anies with the fa ijavailable on the portal in Gase of nonoanee
| | farmers or from.the con branches in case of loanee far ae id
_. also\Govers we ypsk of pie vane ie (ation 121076 1/1೦ is on
included in Sowing areas fumished [ಅ State Government for arriving at sown
4 8/98 of,crop during the Season, Hence, the comparison of 6740055 coverage with
| the sowr area is hot justifiable “However, misreporting ofarea insured, Bd not
| available'for cultivation or farmers fiot sowing/n6n- 171911 t Sow/declare tie crops
. in the application “ete. eee erified eliminated/de-duplicated the
| coverage. ‘The 51214 Governmenviiisurarice company may’ take appropriate
11689076 fon veriicaloeorls nd/area sown at ground level. The Scheme also
>; provides for ontion to jange the ingured crop by the insured farmers. Hence,
Bank Branches and other age es may publicize t ಜಾ ಬ along
with the consequences soar urance/malpractices in advance amongst the
25.1.1 The ICs"Should also very sult 1 number of insuredsland/locations for each
notified majotser oe ay ead bse Insure d fields, afid report the same though

android app to MoA& 411. eee
25.1.2 Under the scheme, notified crops are being insured by the Insurance Companies
on the basis of actuarial premium rate, hence, it is not their prerogative to reduce
the Sum Insured and resultant claimg on the application of ACF. However, to

= rationalize the government subsidy, it the responsibility of all concerned ಚ
stakeholders including farmers and financial institutions to insure the crop which
the farmer actually intends to sow or is sown. The option to change the insured
ತ crop has also been provided under the scheme for reporting of crop(s) actually
‘sown for the insurance. There 15 also a provision to indemnify the crop losses due to
the localized perils on the basis of a survey of individual plot/field under insured
crops. Incorrect reporting of insured crops i.e. if the crop actually sown and insured
4 are different, may lead to forfeiting of claims.
www.pmiby.gov.in

Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 186 ---
25.2 Any case of large scale viscid ove regarding insurance of excess
area i.e. more than the published cultivable area at Taluka leveVabnormally high
insured area as compared to previous years should compulsorily be brought to the
notice of the State Government and MoA&FW, This should be submitted in writing
after the cut-off date of enrolment but before the period specified for reconciliation *
with banks/other agencies along with facts/documents and the list of bank
branches etc so that the same may be examined by the State Government and
rectified by the concemed bank/agencies itself before finalisation of business *
Statistics for the season on Portal.

25.3 In Spite of all suitable measures taken by the Insurance Company for
de-duplication / elimination of ghost farmers/ Excess area insured by the individual
farmers, all Insurance Companies have to necessarily report excess insured area
in the prescribed format to the MoA&FW well before the start of crop cutting
experiments for verification of the claims made by concerned Insurance Company
and for tekipapocessard corrective measures, if required, It is the responsibility of
the Insurance Company.to verify the sown area before e prescribed for auto
appro ಗ In case of any financial loss inclirre the Government in
regpect fo subsidy claimed against the non-genuine farmers, the Insurance

{Company will liable for recovery and appropriate action will be taken, The decision

{or application of ACF will be taken by the MoA&FW based on thejfield reports

& submitted by Insurance Company, thorough evaluation of the situation and the

{decision of MoA&FW in regard to the applicability of discrepancy in insured area
{shale binding on all. The format for such reporting is given in Ar nexuredtl.

254 |. If atl, ACF has to be applied ‘in the case of established Ae “am ಹಾ on

ಟೆ | ground, untilfhe: land integration and real-time reconeiliation remains in abeyance
© fordevelopmentyt e MoAEW willbe allowed to app /theACEonlyonthose major *
ತ crops for which 5ಲ ar€a,at block/Taluka level is availablelas per the prescribed
ಜಾನ el Ee A
25.5 \\ Ifthe difference bel ಸ್ಯ ara anid soln 1 of preceding lst
) othree years)is greater tha 30% at the Bl ‘ehsil/Taluka level, the matter should
‘be compulsorily brought to Larne WiGol ಕಾಂ od format
The MoA&FW. will examine these cases; If required, the MNCFC will also be asked
“to. provide/validate crop area dataffor the same. The concemed Insurance
ಹ Company is required to pt ovide requisite ground ಹ್ಮ್‌ (atleast
covering 20 location per block};collected using the android app to the MoA&FW/
MNCFGto generate accurate area sown data at ee oe The data of the
revised insured area on the appligation of ACF, if any;$hall be uploaded on NCIP
aswell. Wyse te tage
25.6 Accordingly, after scrutiny, excess insured area, if any shall be treated as
un-insured and corresponding farmer's premium will be forfeited. The same will be
surrendered to the Technology Fund of the Gol and may be utilized for leveraging
technology in PMFBY to support technology-based solutions/research/Impact *
assessment etc and towards assisting States to cover the cost of incremental
CCEs. .
25.7 Premium subsidy refunded by ICs due to application of ACF shall be refunded to
the Central/State Government in their subsidy sharing ratio through fund
routing agencies.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 187 ---
18%
26 Information Education and Communication (IEC):
26.1 Information, Education and Communication (IEC) and Capacity Building activities
through awareness drives, campaigns, trainings and handholding support are the
ಜ್ಞ focus areas under revamped PMFBY, |! is imperative to create awareness about
PMFBY amongst farmers and bridge knowledge gaps among various
implementing stakeholders. As ICs will be allocated business for three years from
. Kharif 2020, they will have adequate time for awareness generation and building
capacities of the different stakeholders. Therefore, systematic management of IEC
and training activities is essential for a scheme like PMFBY, where multiple
stakeholders are involved at various stages of scheme implementation. The
primary target groups for conducting IEC and training and capacity building
aclivities are farmers, State level and district level officials of the State
Government, Banks, Primary Agriculture Co-operative societies (PACS), Common
Service Centres (CSCs), field functionaries and primary workers of different
departments and implementing ICs.
26.2 Major challenge in this is the multiple layers of hierarghy Within each stakeholder
and,their different levels of understanding about schemeéimplementation aspects.
This, IEC and training needs of the stakeholders are not, uniform but vary in its
{Uhctional areas. Since, different stakeholders represent PMFBY to the farmers,
any deficiency in the knowledge or services greatly 1772019116 claim settlement
process. Since, the Revamped PMFBY is being implemented from Khari 2020,
and jas been made voluntary for all the farmers, it has become ‘éven more
impgrtant to generate awareness on the benefits of the scheme, build trust in the
 _ schéme and the satisfaction of farmers. Instilling behavioural change
ಕ creating an enabling environment in favour of the 00೧೦೧1 ಲ! ೧೦೧. ingurance,
 _ theréfore, has gréat significance in streamlining schethe implementation. |
. 263 [1 1/1೬ ion of higher authorities of tf (ಡಕ ಕೆ stakeholders at the
| ationastate/district level, massiveawareness generation and error free
\ _implemrientation atthe ground level throughout the season. Pali sues focus
| onall implementation aspects, right fromschéme publiciy, enrolment f farmers,
4, yieldloss‘assessment, claim 1591013110೧, ೮1217 settlement and addressing
. grievances'ol ಜ| objective of IEC and 68/0101 00101೧0115 to build
,. overall literacy.on crop insurance 2701 \g the stakeholders and capacitate farmers.
lotakeinformeddecisions. J Sal
26.4 Following would be the broad, stralegies that need to be focugsed for desired
ಟ್‌ outcomes: ae ಜಾ
26.4.1 AILIEC and;Training and capacityjbuilding activities n carried out in three
phases. First phase will comprise) ಯ at a mass level and
sensitization of Key-stakeholders at highest levels through sensitization
programmes. The second’ phase ಅಸೌ prise of engagement of stakeholders
actively involved in scheme implementation at the field level through continuous
trainings and time to time hand holding support. In the third phase, greater
emphasis will be on developing long term synergy with apex training institutes for
ತ knowledge management in crop insurance sector on a sustained basis.
26.4.2 At the beginning of each crop season, concemed ICs need to prepare a
© stakeholder-wise micro level IEC and training activity plan and ensure strict
implementation of the same. The Gol will facilitate in finalizing the micro activity
plan in consultation with other stakeholders. It will also provide a standard template
detailing target groups, select activities to be undertaken, timeline, frequency,
responsibility etc. before the commencement of season.
|
www. pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಅ |

--- Page 188 ---
196

26.4.3 The ICs to undertake an exercise of activity mapping and corresponding budget
allocation for IEC and Training. This would help in planning diverse activities with
maximum outreach and concentrating on few select activities with limited impact.

26.4.4 Adequate publicity and awareness generation needs 10 be conducted in all the
villages of the notified districts/areas by all the implementing stakeholders in
co-ordination with each other. All possible means of mass communication such as,
print, digital traditional and social media may be utilised to create and disseminate
awareness about the provisions and benefits of the Scheme among the farmers
and the agencies involved in implementing the Scheme.

26.4.5 Awareness generation and training and capacity building activities need to be
carried out on regular basis starting from three months prior to the beginning of the
enrolment period till the claim settlement for a season, ICs need to start the work
immediately, within 15 days ofaward.of gontract and submit a comprehensive plan
tothe concemed State Goverrimentandthe Gol.

26.4.6 IC to prefare a dynaniicieoka media calendar 10/81/2110 awareness and
addressingfss cies 6 ia. ~~ %

26.4.7 fie Government to facilitate implementing 5101 rats in organizing
@raining? and capacity building workshops/sensitizatio ,workShops on key
implementation activities on crop insurance/revamped saad ಟ್ಟ ್ಗ

26.4.8 {7 ICs Should spend 0.5% of the Total. Gross Premium for expenses on publicity,

{7 awareness generation, training and capacity building activities at the field level.
7 Implementing ICs need to submit corresponding details of expenses to thé Gol and .
© SlaleGovernmentatthe endofeveryseason. | ತ್ಡ

26.49) ಲೌ Gross Fibrin one “ಟ್‌ 0.5% of the total Gross,

=~ Premitim will be pooled at the cent we in the form of a knowledge repository

= comprising of IEG, and training, material ॥ such ag/interactive videos, shor films,

Bo taining glanuals,sbooklets, brochures, pan lets ಗಳು 1772101131 and

“\ courses, ils designing.and dissemination, and knowledgeable IEC specialists. This

would involve Using existing infrastructure by” engaai x training ಚನ at

, the nationallfegional/state level, etc. An adyiso ee will function under the

\ sup efvision ofiJoint Secretar 1 CEO-RMFBY, DAC&FW to plan and undertake
‘gloresaid activities. . bess ‘A ಕ

26.4.10 fig IGs shall deposit the unspent balance in the ಪಗಡೆ und of the Gol
within. months of the cut -off 601 107 enrolment. However, ICs working in NER,
Hilly States ‘and UT. administiaiion need to. spend more. on IEC and training
activities ahd any deficits on eagnarked al jocation carvbe adjusted against the
savings 01175 5ರ ಸ್ನ pooled @) ರಂ ದ @ Gross Premium.

26.4.11 All the publicity material/informationfiraining material should necessarily be
uploaded on the NCIP along with the coverage/frequency/duration date, etc for
better execution And effective monitoring.

26.4.12 Resources from central pool may be used to support the engagement ೧.”
apex/premier institutes at the national and state level having institutional
infrastructure and skilled human resources to impart training, developing
E-learning modules, organizing seminars, conferences, workshops on technical .
aspects and conducting research on crop insurance for various stakeholders.

26.4.13 All the stakeholders to contribute in developing a pool of resource persons/master
trainers on the subject of crop insurance across the country.

Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 189 ---
12

26.4.14 ICs to contribute in building institutional capacities by providing training and
support to the Facully Members of select apex/premier training institutes
(identified/empanelled by Gol) in the country. Infrastructure of these training
institutes may further be used for conducting trainings at its premises through

. sponsorship and the provision of offering honorariums to faculties/resource
persons.

ಬ 26.4.15 Strict monitoring and tracking of all the activities planned and executed by the ICs
atnational/state level would be necessary for desired outcomes.

27 Service Charges:

27.1 Bank HQs and Bank Branches:

27.1.1 Bank and other financial institutions etc. shall be paid service charges 6) 4% of the
farmer's share of premium by Insurance Company for the farmers enrolled by the
bank branes. 95 generated from the Portal within the:15 days of the finalization
of business/Statistics. Rural agents engaged in ‘providing insurance related
591 1೮ 1877075. maybe paid appropriate ೧೧/7/111551011 5 decided by the
Instrange Company, subject to a cap prescribed under IR DAI lations. If there
i ಕ್‌ೆ the payment of service charges by the Insurance Company beyond 15

lays finalization of business statistics, the amount needs {be paid.with interest
@12%p.a.toBanksiFis. é ಕ

27.1.2 Evel if the farmer's share of premium is contributedifinanced by the concemed

State Government. the applicable service charges on totalifarmers'\share of
. premium shall be paid by the concemed Insurance Company only. Fs!

: 27.1.3[) The bank Hed (1100 for alli branches or respéctive bankyBranches separately
ಎ | gan 100411 501100 charges from ICs, The Bank ‘HQ j@r branches should
| compilgonly enlex the Goods & Services Tax (GST). fumBer (Central Goods &
> Services Fit ಚ ಚು Gaara seen es Fund (SGST)both) and details of
, _ the bankjaccounts'for remittance of bank service charg # in the credentialflogin
._ page of the Rortal to fat ಸ general ion of the Banik Service charge invoice

._ forthe use oftoncemed Insurance Company and remittance of the samaby them.
27.4.4 “No service charges will ಲ the concemed bank/brdnch for the
plications involving anomaly/deficie Imisrepresentation of détails/data and
‘a been rejected by the Insurance Company. However, service Charges will not

- bated juced/forfeited on application of the ACF. cae

27.2.1 Common Service Centres, Bank B Correspond jens shall be paid service charges
by ICs, as decided by*Gélagainst:thé” successful submission of each farmer
application form by them. This includes charges for submission of electronic data of
farmers along with uploading of the copy of Land Possession Certificate
(LPC)/Land records/ /contract document or any other document defined by the

ಆ concemed State Government to identify share-cropper/tenant farmer, self
declaration of the intent to sow the proposed crop or sown crop/sowing certificate
as notified by the State, Bank Passbook upto 5 pages and printout of one page of

ತ the premium acknowledgement receipt.

27.2.2 No service charges will be payable to the CSC for the applications for which any
anomaly/ deficiency/ misrepresentation of details/data is found and which have
been rejected by the Insurance Company.

www.pmifby.gov.in ೨
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 190 ---
= re ia — ಪಪ್‌ ಡಾ ಡೀ ಾೀಾಾಾಾ೯ಾ್‌ಾಾಾ್ಹಾ
198

27.23 ‘The service charges/Insurance Commission shall also be paid by the concerned
Insurance Companies for enrolment of non-loanee farmers by Insurance
Agents/intermediaries.

27.24 All payments of commission, rewards & service charges by the Insurance
Company will be subject to the applicable circulars and regulations issued by the
Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer's Welfare, Gol and the IRDAI from time to time.

28 Goods & Service Tax (GST):

28.1 Collection of premium under the Scheme is exempted from applicability of Goods &
Service Tax (GST)

29 Monitoring and Review of the Scheme:

@@e8ee

29.4 The State Level Coordination Gommittes on Crop Insurance (51೦೦೦1) of the
concerned:State will be responsible for the monitoringt@fithe Schemes in its State.
Howeyer, a National Level Monitorin Comite (೧)! Inder the chairmanship
ಆಗ್ರ MoAREW aot cheme at the natignallevel.

29.2 athe following monitoring nibagu ebb proposed Oensure the effective

implementation of the Scheme 60 ing each crop seasomensunihg maximum
& benefits tothe farmers: "J." ea
29.2.1 1 Thefpank branches/CSCs/ intermediaries may collect the details of individual
®/ insured farmers (both loanee arid nontiganee) like name, fathers’ naifie, Bank
ಶ್ರ Account number, Aadhaar nu , village, ೦816001165. - small and =
Ee marginaliSC/STiwomen, insured acreage; insured crop(s), SU insured, premium
= the web ೧೯,೮85 Integral ed th odule along.with the’ electroni¢ submission of crop ಕ
ನಿ wise consalidatedideclarations ಲಣ್ಣ ೧7 before finale: [-೦ date 15 ed on
\ Compariyby the State Governrrient withing month frome date of final harvest of
“A theindividdalcrop. 4% os a fee ಬ
ತ ‘ eS 3 ರೋ fp
29.2.2 “\ The ಜಾ Slinsured area.ifany shall be reported immediately after
“Muthe completion of coverage period/upléading of data of individual insured farmers
“6p the Portal but no later than gns 6101 CCEs. ‘Similarly, anya@nomaly in the
' actual yield data shall be brought io ಆಟೋ a e Government
no later than 15 days from the. figal receipt of actual yielddata as detailed in
29.2.3 ICs shall calcifate crop-wise, IU Ee payable cia 15 Based on the actual yield data
and threshold yield given atthe (1115 of tendering. Accordingly, the payable claims
subject to payment of applicable’premium share by the Central and State
Government for the season shall be remitted by the ICs directly into the benefitted
farmer's accounts electronically. Payment details shall be updated on the NCIP gn
adaily basis. .
29.2.4 After the finalization of the claim amount from the concemed ICs, the same will be
shared with the financial institutions/banks. They should display the list of the
beneficiaries/details of claims (both loanee and non-loanee) on the notice board of
the branch within seven days with the details of beneficiaries like Name of
farmers/beneficiaries, crops insured, sum insured, amount of claims received etc.
www.pmi by.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ಲು

--- Page 191 ---
195
29.2.5 The list of beneficiaries (Bank-wise and insured area-wise) shall also be uploaded/
placed on the website of the concerned ICs with proper provisions and
mechanisms of public grievance redressal/feedback etc. The State/UTs should
ensure that crop insurance products provide comprehensive insurance coverage
3 to the farmers on sound insurance principles and provide the best value for the
premium. State Government may also review the progress of the Scheme
periodically and undertake impact assessment after the completion of each season
5 and send their suggestion/ recommendations to DAC&FW for making further
improvements in the Scheme.
29.2.6 About 5% of the beneficiaries may be verified by Regional Offices/Local level
Offices of ICs who will send the feedback to concerned DLMC and State
GovernmenU/SLCCCI on Crop Insurance.
29.2.7 Al least 10% of the beneficiaries verified by the IC may be cross verified by the
concemed DLMC and they should send the feedback to the State Government.
29.2.8 1% to Sd the beneficiaries may be verified by he Head Office of the
1೦/೧6 nt Agencies appointed by the Central Go¥erntent/NLMC and they
sholild send the necessary feedback to the Central ಬಸ
30 ೬. Grievance Redressal Mechanism: \
30.1 {7 — Eachimplementing State/UTs and empanelied ICs are requiredto compullsorily set
{up @ stratified and a robust grievance. redressal ರ with requisite
5 infrastructure upto the level of block/taluka to address! grievances of all
stakeholders paiticularly insured farmers. By [ಸ್ನ
. 30.2 At the initial level, for grievance redressal, each district shall{designale taluka and
district level griey ance Tedressal officer preferably’ Tehsil/Taluk or District
 Agriculture/Horties mere to record &respond/to the: grievances of
1. 7೫೧7೧೯೮, ೧07/5, ICs vil in 7 days offreceipt /of grievance. Inicase of
‘dissatisfaction, the eco te brought before District Level Grievance
_RedressalCommitted(DGRC). .. | Vir f
30.3 District Level Grievance Redressal Committee (DGRC): In line with the DLMC,
‘BGRC shall also be constitlited for,fedressal of grievances of Farmers, Banks,
ee mst rance Company, District Authority Department. This Committee will be headed
by the, District Magistrate (DI ಸುಂ and the representatives of Farmers,
Lead District Manager (LDM/Banks, District Development Manager (ODM)
NABARD, Thsurance Company ghd concerned ರಾ ಗಾ ಜಯ (ie.
Agriculture/Horticulture/Cooperalive/Revenue/Agricultural Statistics etc,) shall be
appointed as memberSThis Commit ಜ್ರ invite subject specialists/experts
from University/IMD/commodity Boards/Research Institutions, SRSAC etc. if
deemed necessary. The DRGCwill dispose the matter within 15 days. The decision
of the Committee shall be accepted by all the parties and in case of disagreement
with the decision; the same shall be represented to the State Level Grievance
. Redressal Committee (SGRC) within 15 days from the decision of DGRC. In case
the DGRC doesn't take the matter for discussion within 7 days from submission of
ಇ grievance or the grievance has wider scope of effect impacting more number of
districts or there is a breach of guidelines by any of the stakeholder or the grievance
matter exceeds Rs. 25 Lakh in monetary terms, the matter may be directly raised at
the State Level Grievance Redressal Committee. Similar grievance redressal
committee should also be constituted al the block/Tehsil level under the
www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ೨

--- Page 192 ---
ಯಂ
chairmanship of 01000161151 level agriculture/horticulture officer to facilitate the
district level grievance redressal committee.

30.4 State Level Grievance Redressal Committee (SGRC): States/UTs may also
nominate the State level Grievance Redressal Officers at the rank of Deputy =|
Secretary/Director to register and dispose off grievances notin the purview of direct
registration by the District Level Grievance Officer. The State shall also constitute a
State Level Grievance Redressal Committee for redressal of grievance of re
Farmers, Banks, Insurance Company, District Authority/Department unsettled at
the level of the DGRC. This Committee will be headed by the Principal
Secretary/Secretary of the Nodal Department, SLBC/Banks, Chief General
Manager (CGM) NABARD, Insurance Company and the concerned State
Authority/Department shall be appointed as members. This Committee may also
invite subject specialists/experts from University/IMD/research
institutions/commodity Boards!, Staté Remote Sensing Application Centre, STSU,

STAC etc. if deemed necessary. The Committee will dispose the grievance within
15 days fipi@of receipt of grievance. The decisiowfSfithe Committee shall be
accepteffibysall the parties. The States/UTs shall nofify.ih@\constitution of such a
grieyanceftedressal committee and make wide publicily,amBngst farmers along
th th@’name, address, email ID and contact Humbep of grievance
fedreséal officer. ಯ್‌
& tn addition, the States / UTs shall 51100/50701/ and take [ಗಿಡ esponsibility of the
following activities: 4 %
: ಸ
FS A. [Strengthening of the Grievance Rédressal Commitee (GRCs) for resolving
ಚ he grievances at the ground level (Taluka / Districtlevel). | \ =
8 ಸಂಭ! capacity building shall be provided tothe 01115 concerned with
“ Gr jevarice Redressal and its timely resolution and disposal. — = ಕ
% C. Systematic fipctioning ofthe Grievance Redressal ommittees al Various
a levels with prope: reporting mechanism afd documentation. ie
“4D. Timelyidisposal ofthe Grievances and intimatiog of the status:of disposal to
ಆ Avoiding procedural delays ingchannelizing’ the: Grievances’ to officials /
"ಶ್ರ organisations for taking, necessary: action and strict adherence to the
ಕ 2 ಸ caus 116065. BROS ಇಕೆ
ಹ F. Proper documentation of. fhe Grievances and Disposal status shall be
' ensured yforfurther tracking By the State {Centre Governments and for RTIs or
| by any 5೪/1 Govemment / Gifizen rights. ism as part ensuring greater
transparency and accountabilityo scheme.
s  G._ Thestatus of the grievance receipts and disposal shall be regularly updated
ಡಾ ‘on social media handles of PMFBY maintained by the State/ UT and the links
of the same shall be made available to the implementing Department and = *
Government of India, for any reference.

30.5 National Level Centralized Grievance Redressal Mechanism:
Adedicated Centralised Toll-free Number should be set-up for query resolution and
grievance redressal. Any query or complaint of the farmer will be registered on the
NCIP against a unique ticket number. The ticket number will be shared with the

www.pmiby.gov.in ೨
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 193 ---
19 \
farmer through SMS indicating the tentative resolution timeline. Query or complaint
registered with the call centre will be further forwarded/displayed to the concemed
Stakeholder. The Stakeholder can forward it further down in the hierarchy or to
another stakeholder as required and provide the resolution/redressal within given
timelines. The solution/redressal shall be intimated to the farmer through
telephonic call and also through SMS generated by NCIP.
io 30.6 Grievance Redressal Mechanism by Insurance Company:
30.6.1 Each implementing Insurance Company will put in place an effective and resilient
Grievance Redressal Mechanism for resolution and disposal of all grievances
received through multiple channels viz. Centralized Call Centre, Toll-Free Call
Centre, Social Media, Tehsil Level Grievance Cell, DGRC, SGRC, IRDAI,
Insurance Ombudsmen, Banks, SLBC, Centralised Public Grievance Redressal
and Monitoring System CPGRAMS), respective State Grievance Redressal and
Monitoring System (GRAMS) and similar entities and directly through farmer in the
form of application/cor nt ter. A:designated resource/manpower at each
tehsil levél Shall be equi jandle and resolve grievances of farmers at local
level <@fid He/she shoul ble 10 participate in éhsil/Taluk level grievance
1781705೫೧೧ dispose-off thie grievances. ~ &
30.6.2 Similarly, senior resource persons at the District and State level should be
AY equipped to participate i RC and SGRC meeting to resolve such grievances.
30.6.3 // Insurance Company ensure that details of the grievance redtssal officers along
11] 1110 name, addres$jand contact number and email id ig publicized widely
‘ among farmers. ICs will have ಪ grievance within 7 day's time of receipt
of each and every grievance/complaint. : is
30.6.4 Insurance Gompany shall havelton ಸಥ prepareland submit monthly report -
containing (details, of alljsuch grievances’ reported and their disposal status to
respective Grievarice Rédressal Committees in thé 1st week of next 170/1
30.7 Commitiée to examine'the additional cldim$arising dite to errors /omissions
J commissions of the financi ಯು aay
30.7.4 Acommittee will be constituted under thé chairmanship of Chief Eres ಲಗಂ
FBY)/Joint Secretary (Credit), DAC&FW with the representatives of Internal
ance Division CED) DAC céncemed Staté GovernmentyICs to examine
ani settle the ೪ aled ಸ್ರತ ising due to
e issions/commissiong,ofjthe Financial institutions specially in the
remittante of premium, uploadifg of information on portal-éte to facilitate the early
settlement ofclaims to 6101191939೯... ದೆ
36.7.2 Committee will also" ‘vite. the-S@nior.execitive/officers of concerned banks to
present their cases before the Committee.
30.7.3 The Committee will take final decision in this regard including recommendation for
the payment of admissible government subsidy to facilitate the payment of
2 admissible claims and/ or payment of additional/full liabilities towards admissible
claims by concerned financial institution or concerned Insurance Company.
. 30.7.4 All the aforesaid committee constituted for redressal of grievances of the
stakeholders should examine and dispose of grievances as per the Revamped
Operational Guidelines. Any clarification / interpretation of provision of the
Revamped Operational Guidelines solely lies with DAC&FW, MoA&FW,
Government of India. |
11/1781. 0[7111)/ ೮೧೪.17. ೨ |
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY |

--- Page 194 ---
Yar

31 Empanelment and Selection of ICs:

34.1 Empanelment Criteria:

3444 The Public Sector (AIC & others) and Private Sector General IC empanelled by
DAC&FW and selected by concerned State Government / Union Territory (UT)
shall implement the PMFBY. The IC mainly engaged in agriculture/rural insurance
business and having adequate experience, infrastructure, financial strength and
operational capabilities are empanelled by DAC&FW. Once an Insurance
Company has been empanelled by MoA&FW, itis considered as pre-qualified
company to bid for the selection of Implementing Agency (IA) to undertake
implementation of the Scheme/Programme of MoA&FW.

34.1.2 L1 bidder shall not be permitted to surrender partial clusters/districts. If any
Insurance Company declines, after being declared L1, it will be de-empanelled/
de-barred to implement’crop insurance Scheme for the coming/next season(s) in
the concemed State and L2 may be, given the cluster for implementing the crop
insuranceStheme at L1 district-crop combination raf@s'and so on to L3, L4 bidder
with thgir consent. All Such bidders will be requiredjto‘simultaneously furnish
ಗ್‌ reasons fot withdrawal/sutrender/non acceptanée, in writing to the

State Gavernment. with the Copy to the DAC&FW to enable“fuurther corrective
deasures and appropriate administrative & legal action accordingly. Financial
ಕೆ 105998, if any, to the State Government, in re-tendering ‘due to withdrawal of
ನ selecied bidders, will be recovered fromthe withdrawing L1 bidder.
31.1.3 §  EachInsurance Company should:compulsorily bid for any shen, 2 Hilly States
© and UTs. Suitable penaltvmayes imposed tothe defaulters ಜಟ Gol
a: St “ees 1) 016 4 "3 ಕ್ರ
34.1.4. ೧೦೧೩ ॥051705368ಂಟಂಗಿ a&Underwriting, Grievance ಲಅಫ್ರಅಲಯ and claim calculation
| cannidt be ouftsouirced by the:Insurance Company) to any third party outside of the
| organization: Suit able poral nay be imposed to the defaulters Ey Mons Gol ‘
© and will.also send recommendations toJRDAI fortaking nécessary action in the

31.4.5 4 Since premium rate bei g.decided onthe basis of transparent bidding process,

\.__pre-biddind)eo- insurance ೪/೧6 fe allow. All companies have to inform such
“\arrangementsif any in advarice to the Golfand in 5001] 03505 only one company will
© be allowed to participate inthe bid: I itsfound that more than one company having
“Yco-insurance drrangements,haye participated a ಜಗೌ as
‘implementing agencies, therjcrop 156 lowest premium rate quoted by these

31.2 Selection Criteria of ICs as Implementing Agency (IA):

31.2.1 The ಹಾಯ ance Company from the empanelled list of ICs to act as
Implementing Agencya(iA)shalb.b ಗ concerned States/UTs for
implementing the Scheme in their State. Selection of !Awill be made by adopting
the cluster approach. In the case of smaller States, the whole State may be
assigned toone lA.

31.2.2 Before the commencement of the crop season, State Government would invite
the pre-qualified companies as mentioned in the preceding para through
open tender for submission of district-wise and crop-wise actuarial premium
rates in percentage of Sum Insured (financial bid). Indemnity Level, Threshold *
Yields, Sum Insured etc. will be the same for all ICs for the season. The
participating 6770276106 companies have to bid the premium rates for all the crops
notified / to be notified in the cluster by the State Government, Non-compliance will
lead to rejection of the bid.

www.pmiby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ©

--- Page 195 ---
193

34.233 Based on the district-wise and crop-wise actuarial premium rates quoted by the
pre-qualified companies, the total premium amount and weighted average
premium rates for cluster of districts will be calculated to arrive at L1. The L1 Bidder
will be selected to act as the Implementing Agency in the concerned cluster.

34.2.4 Selection of IC has to be made for three years as mentioned above. Ensuring
long-term continuity will facilitate the IC 10 build its credibility among the farmers by

. investing its premium savings in various activities aiming at the welfare and
socio-economic development of the farmers like the creation of the facilities of
drinking water! healthcare/education, farm levelling, Weather Forecasts, CSCs,
etc. Itis also anticipated that long term continuity gives an opportunity to Insurers,
Bankers, State Government and other stakeholders to achieve a supportive and
collaborative interaction and business relationship and service effectiveness,

31.2.5 The insurance coverage in,terms of the number of farmers and acreage should be
at least at the level of Gresponding previous season. In case of fall in
coverage, Gal may get the facts examined and if found at fault, it may impact the
rank, ICs an ಯ Bide Government afd, Warrant corrective action
wa | action b) Trt ಕತ

31.2.6 phe State Government ile vide the requisite data aboutpast Yield of the last 10

{consecutive years or more, threshold yield, crop-wise sum 175/1 ರ, indernnity
evel, insurance unit levels, names of notified units, calamity years ete, in a digital
form, by uploading the samen NCIP before floating the formaltender notice.

32 ff Clus tering Clubbing 1150 for bidding by the State:

32.4 In otder to diversify! spread 110 tsk and cover high risk/ lowrrisk distriels/ area

equally, the state ಲಂಗ are required to e disfficts/ area iftsuch a
ಕ way that each group containsa 'districts/ area withdifferentrisk profiles. Prior
i to inviting the bidjthe Stal rment, especial ಆ large States have to divide
| the Stale into muittiple ‘of districts depending on the volume’ of risk
Scheme. The purpose, of clu: is to divide the States into differentgroups of
1 districts,"so that expected sui sd (ESIVbecomes low and tisk is shared and
) diversified. ‘The States@may form ‘thegclusters ofvdistricts based-on mixed
'' agro-climatic zones. i) Distrigts of high risk and low risk areas, il) districts of different
“a igro-climatic zones, and ill) ES | is of each cluster should be in similarorder.
he.district having a very. high risks exposure apne diyided into clusters,
combining few blocks as a cluster, However, while dividing the District in more than
one clusters, administrative convenience may also be considered. Prior to the bid
invitation, detailson the cluster to inal tion may also be made available to the ICs.

32.2 The objectives of Clu ಗ! Club ಆ cts should be done to achieve

the following objectives:
A. Cluster formation shall be applicable for upto 3 years and shall not be
5 hanged during the contract period. Different Clusters may be defined based
on the risk profile of the district so as to increase the diversification of risk
within a cluster and enable risk spreading for insurer.
B. _ Cluster may contain districts with mixed agro-climatic zones so as to increase
the diversification of a risk within a cluster.
C. Grop-wise associated risk may also be diversified among the clusters and
shall be factored in cluster formation.
www.pmiby.gov.in ®
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 196 ---
V9,

32.3 Hence, one of the major requirements of clustering is the risk analysis of different
districts. For the purpose of clustering/clubbing of districts and determination of L1
bidder, the risk is analyzed based on the long-term data of yield by (a) computing
the average burn cost (percent difference between actual yield and threshold yield)
and b) computing the level of variability in the long-term yield. Since, availability of
high quality long-term yield data is difficult, especially at the lower administrative
level, other methods (including the use of satellite data) can be tried for |
risk assessment.

32.4 Satellite data, of moderate resolution (e.g. Resourcesat, Advanced Wide Field
Sensor (AWIFS), Terra/Aqua MODIS) are available, for the long-term, i.e. at least
around 15 years. The long-term Vegetation Indices, which are indicators of crop
health, derived from these satellites can be used to assess the year to year
variations and thereby understanding the risk potential of an area. It can be
combined with many ottier satellite derived. products, such as flood maps, drought
assessments and vulnerability and long-term weather data to carry out the risk
analysis 5 are advised to take the support ಗ ied National or State
level ré organizations (6.6. ISRO- NRSC/SACAMNGEC, SRSAC, SAUs,
ಲ| 10 use the above mentioned technology for carrying, outtisk analysis of the
Districts! Talukas/ Blocks towards improvementin clusteririg, ಥಾ

32.5 The five listed approaches are only to provide guidance tothe States. The State
Governments are free to follow the recommended approaches of any other method

| devised by them however, ensuring thatthe DAC&FWis intimated.)

326 ||: ಇ illustration for classification of risks, clubbing/clustering of risks and ಪ

2 distygts and determination of 1 bidder areatAnnexure-Hll. | ce |
111 ಚ & cee ಜ್ಜ be 1
33 Asse ಜ್‌ of Performance Be De-er i elment of Insurance Z
33.4 ~The ‘performance “ol the empanelled ICs Il be :cldSely° monitored) by the
. concerned Nodal Department of the State Governmentiatthe end of the completion
{ofeach 4 year interval comprising of atleast two crop ಮ iesKhagfand Rabi
, through ascettaining thekcompany’s Skills, commitment. ೨೧೮ effigiencies for
;providing cost\effective ang efficientSinsurance Services to farmers. For the
‘purpose, a detailed performance eyaluation matrix containing key performance
indigators with assigned weightage has beensworkedouténd is as given
at Afinexure -IV. ೫ 1] ಮ a

33.2 ‘The Nodal'éepartment at the end of two complete seasons of a year may initiate
performance evaluation of the IGS working in theirstate on the specific parameters
as prescribed in the'Insurance’ompany's’ Performance Evaluation Matrix as
outlined in Annexure-IV and complete the activity as per timelines defined in the

Seasonal Discipline, i.e. within 1 month each year.
ಇ ಭ

33.3 The base data to be used for the evaluation shall be extracted from NCIP. The =>
Nodal department will share their evaluation report with respective Insurance
Company by 20th of the month for their comments and confirmation. Each
Insurance Company should be given enough opportunity to present their viewsand  *
substantiate their observations with valid data/proofs. Nodal Department shall
evaluate such additional data/proofs submitted by Insurance Company and
accordingly review their evaluation report and submit to MoA&FW, Gol latest by
31st July each year.

೪೪00 0ಗಾಗು)/ ೧೦೪.1೧.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ®

--- Page 197 ---
195
33.4 MoA&FW, Gol wilt have the final authority to implement/execute the performance
evaluation report after thorough evaluation and validation of facts. MoA&FW, Gol
may ask for additional data/proofs from Insurance Company or Nodal Department
of State Government to substantiate the facts as stated in the report.
33.5 Once the Performance Evaluation report has been accepted and finalized by
6 MoA&FW, Gol, the corresponding actions will be taken by the Ministry along with
. similar actions by the Nodal Department of the state.
34 Evaluation of Efficiency of Nodal Department of the State:
344 The efficiency evaluation of the State Nodal Department shall also be closely
monitored by MoA&FW on every 1 year interval through ascertaining the State's
efficiency and execution {imple ಕೆ ಕ, of the Scheme. For the purpose, a
detailed performance evaltiation tix taining key performance indicators with
assigne tage: “Th ಅಹಾರ 15 35 ೮140೧ Annexure- V.
| 35 ae ' ities re iia
For successful implem he br ninistration of Scheme, roles of various
(7 Agencies/Institutions/Gi mi ರ speltout herein.
35.1 ಲ ಎ ರಾರಾ ಬ ಟ್‌ | ;
. 35.1.4 ‘Support and ey Govemments ಸ of
| PMEFBY includifig 2942/8095 0168110ಗ, publicity afid.the issuance of sary
. inst lions/,guidelines 10111 "An 1d. effective implementation.
35.1.2 |... 19600 of directived.to RBINABARD, rcial Banks; RRBs and Cooperatives
_ for compliance with the terms’ and itions of PMFBY and its operational
35.1.3 “Maintain NGIP. Ye ಸ &
35.1.4) Setting up of the TSU/CPMUwith adequate infrastructure and expertise as defined
35.1.5 opstitution/Revampiag Sf TAGias defined in Para 19.3.
35.1.6 FacilitatStates in strengthening gfAWS/ARG network on PPP Mode by providing
50% fund forthe same, |... vs
35.127 Release the advance premium stbsidy equivalent to 50% of 80% of Central share
of premium subsidy of corresponding previous season under the Scheme to ICs
within 15 days of the enrolment cut off date for allocated clusters.
| 35.1.8 The balance of premium subsidy, forthe season shall be released within 15 days of
finalization of district-wise business statistics by |Cs on NCIP.
. 35.1.9 Review and monitor the implementation of PMFBY including premium rates,
product-benchmarking and other matters and issue necessary directives to ICs.
Review the performance of participating ICs and suggest modifications/
improvements wherever required.
www.pmtby.gov.in ೦
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 198 ---
— SS = ee, ಹ
1೧4

35.1.18 Organize Capacity building training/workshops for the State Government officials,
Banks, CSC and ICs. To Interpret the provisions of the Scheme and take decision
on matters of risk/ dispute in settlement of claims.

35.111 Provide necessary assistance, guidance and resources for adoption of new
technology for transparency, better administration of Scheme and timely payment
of claims to insured farmers.

35.14.12 0.25% of the total Gross Premium(out of 0.5% of the total Gross Premium .
earmarked for awareness and publicity) will be pooled at the central level to build a
knowledge repository.

35.14.13 To review the performance of the State Government for effective implementation
of PMFBY.

35.41.14 Maintenance of Crop Insurance ಸಿ0೧. 15075 compulsory use of the app for
Localized Calamity and Post-Harvest Loss feporting.

35.1.15 To develp Technology pigeons including the Olécols for Two Step Yield
Estimation and Smart Sa: pling ‘Techniques, Optimization of CCEs and
1796770100) Based Claims settlementin case of delay in sharing ofyield data by the-

35.14.16 fen an jelmentofiCs andagencies fr ಪಾ 2 oe

418೫] ಕ 2 ಲ ಟೂ]
35.117 Interpretation of any provision: of the’Scheme, decision in any aspects of the
ಕ ಇ caer of risk / any dispute in.settle it of claims and change in Operational
® Guidelines / provisions, ifrequiréd during the implementation period. i ಆ
35.211; To constitute the,SLCCCl with adequate! representation ಪ all stakeholders as
|... detailedyin) Section 6.1.8: The: ion of 5106172) be strenjathened
“{_~ Suitably from 117 time to give representatign to all the’¢oncerned paiticipants
\\__ including farmers in the implementationoftheScheme.. 57. 5
352.2 “) To setup and notify State level TechnicalAdvisory Committee (STAC) and State
‘iy level Grievance Redres: edressalGommittee ಇ ಬಜ ಭ್ರ ಆ...

35.2.3... ೩610 and notify the 0/51. evel Monitoring 0೦117190 (೧34 District Level
Giievance: Redréssal Committee (DGRG), District Level Joint{Committee and
Distt ict|_evel Steering committee 161 SES and to hold regularmneeting and ensure
frequerigy of meetings atthe distrctlevel. .... _4ೆ

35.2.4 SLCCCI meeling.to be held welliin advance 10 finalize clusters, issue bid notice,
selection of Implementing Agency and issuance of Notification. Notification of the
State Government shall contain allinformation as outlined in Section 7.

35.2.5 Take suitable action for adoption of new technology including Two-step Yield
Estimation Methodology, Optimization of CCEs and Smart Sampling Technique for
early loss assessment and better administration of Scheme. ಈ

35.2.6 Issue necessary directives to all agencies/institutions/Government
departments/Committees involved in implementation of Scheme. .

35.2.7 Notify insurance unit area at Village/Village Panchayat or other equivalent units for
major crops. Unit size may be above the level of Village/Village. Panchayat Unit

2 size may be above the level of Village/Village Panchayat for other crops.
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 199 ---
(99-

35.2.8 Fumish_in advance insurance unit-wise (or of higher unit, if unit level data not
available) yield data of past 10 years of all crops notified under PMFBY, previous 10
years season-wise, crop-wise & |U-wise loss cost data, past 5 years season-wise,
crop-wise, |U-wise coverage and claim data and other relevant data as per section
& of the Operational Guidelines in soft copy format in English as per the formats

= detailed in model tender document issued by Gol to ICs.

35.2.9 Issuance of necessary instructions to Regional Meteorological Centres of IMD and

ಕ other Government! quasi Government agencies for supplying weather data on
near/real-time basis to Insurance Company.

35.2.10 Plan and conduct awareness and publicity three months prior to the start of the
coverage period, to maximize coverage of the farmers especially non-loanee
farmers in co-ordination with implementing ICs. State Government may also
earmark separate annual budget forthe same.

11 11,

35.211 Release advance premium subsidy had Stent to 50% of 80% of Central share of
premium idy of corresponding | ravigus seasongunder the Scheme 10 ICs
within 1Siays ಬ 1212) 1000/6011.

oe Ph GE

35.2.12 The bal ಆ of premium subsidy, for the 13507 shall beyeleased within 15 days
from the time of finalization of ತ usiness 51351165 by IGs on NCIP. =

35.2.13  . * Notify District-wise and ae cut-off: Id ite for end of harvesting. “),

35.214 | Submission of yield data forall notified crops and insurance units to IC inastandard

ay tome in an Blectronicit rm (editable format) preferably on portal within the
11... stiplatedtimelines. 1. 111"
35.218 AssisLIC for dssessmen crop ose ofa Inv (HA insured farmers caused by
; / localized perils 1111 also assi ಬ್‌ ntof the post-harvestlosses.
35.2.16 To undertake requisite nurhber of CCI ಅ notified area as per the GCES/State
manua I Pro de the yield data 10.18 [7೧೧8 Compa lin the prescribed
4 cutoffdate/along with results of the indiyidual\CCEs. (47
35.2.17 \\ Relevant documents may be provided to the IC only (6r those CCEs co-observed
ಶ್ರಿ by the ICs: Itisonly in 0058 010085 Co,6bserved byICs, can objections be raised
ಶರ the companiyon any contkadictioninyielddata. fl

35.218  To,notify district-wise and cropawise gasonality discipline including normal sowing
date Nee ಮತ್ತೆ i ಗ pfharvesting, 9.

35.219... Toprovide.crop-wise, IU-wise data of normal an ea so n, crOp-wise cost of inputs at
different ‘crop. stages and: ndfify-cut-off dates {or invoking provisions of
prevented/failéd Sowing/transplamtatio pation Clause.

35.2.20 Approval of CCE data on portal and Uploading of missing CCE data to facilitate
calculation of claims on portal.

35.2.21 Ensure mandatory use of Mobile Application/ other technology like RST for

೩ improvementin the quality of CCEs and digitization of CCE-wise yield on NCIP_

35.2.22 To issue notification for On-Account payment, for prevented sowing/failed

ತ; germination and in case of mid-season adversity if required.
35.2.23 Setting up of the State TSU with adequate infrastructure and expertise.
35.2.24 _  Toprovide office space to implementing ICs at its district office.
www.pmiby.gov.in 0
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 200 ---
ee =
1೪
35.2.25 Undertake performance evaluation of implementing ICs, and calculate penalty on
10525098005.
35.2.26 Timely preparation, updation and digitization of Village level master (Location
master) on the NCIP. ‘
35.2.27 Ensure no condition is enforced in violation of the provisions mentioned in the OGs.
35.3 National Technical Support Unit/State Technical Support Unit: ತ
35.3.1 Monitoring of the implementation of Crop Insurance Schemes.
35.3.2 Calculation of Scheme-wise/season-wise/crop-wise Loss Cost.
35.3.3 Design & development of Weather Based Crop Insurance products for the crop /
areas based on the local) 63116 ditions.
35.3.4 Appraisalyb@hchmarking and standardization of cropifigurance products (weather
wd ous particip ICs. |
35.3.5 ಗತೆ] the evaluation / ೬ studies, 4
35.3.6 Capacity building andtraining all the stakeholders engagedin crop insurance.
35.3.7 4° Toprovide technical input Go Jemment & ICs regarding cropinsurance products.
35.3.8 |) To develop methodologjffor assessment of yield including d&sessmentithrough
& emote sensing, suggeStzimprovements in the method 10/1/1916. assessment 3
4 through CCEs@other | ಯೋ (|
35.3.9 “Development of integrated database for crop insurances |
35.3.10; Deve J of Ihtemet / WebsSnabled Evaluation & Mapagement Information
ಪಜಯ ಸ ಜು MA Ge 4" 1 ಹ |
38.3.1 |. Otherrélatedworks enltustedby tiie CentraliState/ UT;Government.
35.4.1 “IEs to liaise with State: Governments. and Agencies/ Institutiohs/Committees
involved in the implementatio ಕ PMFBY and regular participation in meetings
ಸ a ಸ ೫
35.4.2 Undertaketunderwaiting 1950071 [111105 for processing”and acceptance of risk
strictly asan Fiiouse activity. Its iuld not to be outsourced.
Bae
35.4.3 Claim processing / finalization’ on receipt of yield data from States/UTs and
payment within the prescribed timelines. Claims shall be remitted directly into the
designated bank accounts of farmers through the portal after the activation of |
necessary module. 4
35.4.4 Obtain Re-insurance arrangements, if necessary.
35.4.5 To verify the bank/land records when claims are reported due to clerical
errors/omissions. This can be done only before the approval of claims.
35.4.6 Disclose details of the designated Agents in writing before the inception of
- non-loanee farmers enrolment for the season to the ೦೦೧೦೮796 authority.
www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 201 ---
(35 =

35.4.7 Ensure timely-payment of commission/ service charges to banks/CSCs /BCs for
implementing the Scheme.

35.4.8 Awareness and publicity - undertake extensive efforts to create awareness and

ಜಃ generate publicity at the grass-root level including bank branches. Also coordinate
with the States and other agencies for awareness and publicity of the Scheme.
Refer to the IEC and Training activities detailed in Section 26 of the guidelines.

5 35.4.9 Provide requisile relumns/siatistics/information demanded by the Central and State
Governments.

35.4.10 Handhold Bank branches and facilitate their training and capacity building
especially in terms of timely digitizing details of the insured farmers with all requisite
details on NCIP.

354.11 Ensure intermediariesi agents digitize {the details of insured farmers and
beneficiaries,with all requisite details on NG]P well in time

35.4.12 Redressal,6f all Public Grievances within the time fixed, bylthe IRDAI. Maintain a
centralized farmer's help line number (Toll Free Number) ta be Used for addressing
the grievances of farmers. It will be based on a docket system withithe provision of

sforwarding the grievances to respective ICs for resolution; Maintenance of the
7 record of grievances received from Sera SOUS: and its disposal.

35.4.13 {7 Thejcoverage of eligible loanee farmers should be carried oul by ICs through the
banks/Fls. Coverage through agents/ brokers is notallowed. |

35.4.14 Establish a fupetional office at thersub-cistrict leveli.e. TehsiliBlock level in each

..... 0191101 and atleast one agent sh 16 be deployed atéach Telisil/Block level office
5 inthe allocated Districts. iste office be headed by the |G representative who
..... should}be an Agii Graduate.’ Details of.the offices atithe district level including
38.4.15\) Deployment of sufftietime LE 10150-005010 GES and allied Activities.
35.4.16 At the beginnir ig of each, crop’season, concemed. ICs need. toyprepare a
istakeholder-wise. micro, level IEC apd training activity plan andjensure strict
‘implementation of the same. Undertake IEC activities as detailed 11500107 26.
354.17 ICs te.compulsorily share the 1 the ರಾಷಟ s along with the claim 3೫
details 101 bank branches to be isplayed for the informat on of farmers.
35.418 ೧೮೦0 crop-Held and weather ita bases, along With related agri-insurance data
35.4.19 Provide necessary inputs to the State GovernmenUSLCCCI as required as per the
Aotification or ctherwise.
ಇ
ತ 35.5 Financial Institutions/Banks:
35.5.1 For purpose of PMFBY, scheduled banking institutions engaged in disbursing
. Seasonal Agricultural Operations (SAO) loans/KCC loan as per relevant guidelines
of NABARD/RBI shall be reckoned as Banks.
www.pmiby.gov.in ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 202 ---
=
ಗ
35.5.2 Notification, as well as other directives, guidelines, etc., shall flow 25 Insurance
Company— District Lead Bank/Administrative offices of Commercial
banks/RRBs/DCCBs — Service Individual Bank Branch /PACS.
35.5.3 Communicate Notification, as well as other directives, guidelines, etc. to ೫...
agencies that fall within theirjurisdiction.
35.5.4 Ensure that all agencies within their jurisdiction sanction additional loan .
; component to loanee farmers towards premium payable by them.
35.5.5 Adequate publicity for Opt out process and intimation of farmers. Record keeping
ofall opt out applications.
35.5.6 Ensure that all service (subordinate) bank branches within their jurisdiction serve
all non-loanee farmers desiring apd eligible to take insurance cover under PMFBY.
Such service will includé Paget pak ccount of non-toanee farmers, guiding
them to fill up.the proposal forms, acc ei premium,from them and maintaining
35.5.7 Engfire thal the penal 4 beth loanes and non-loaneé farmers shalll be remitted
ಶಿ td the concerned ICs a ‘related data is uploaded on NCIP within the
op a el i | 1.1.18 ಳ್ಳ ಳ್ಳ
35.5.8 ತ Lead: Bank/Administral NBsomces of:Banks should ensure that all farmers
ಕ್ವ... 58700766 crop loans/séasonial operational loans/KCC loan for notified crop(s)
{are necessarily insured (exceptfor 11705600106 out) and strict adherence of all
{conditions stated 1೧ the Operational Guidelines of the Schema! No eligible farmer a
|... 57006 be deprived of ag insurance Cover; Lead banks/ Administrative Offices of
........ Banks therefore should piake allieffortsiand purst a reife for erating al
| Incase, claims fave arin during cropsSeason,then Yespective defaulting bank
= and its'Brane es Would be oe @ responsible tolmake payment of the admissible
"4 claims toloanee fatmerswhor ere deprived ofjsurance cover. &
35.5.9 1. Concemed Bank and its bra ye 7 nsure digitization of insufed farmer
._ details on NCI P along with etails of remiftance of premium within stipulated time.
“\The consolidated premitim, of farmefs' share will be remitted electronically
“through the: payme! nt gatew ay of NGIP. followed by the compulsory entry of
Payment details on the Portalfor prope pe aceon yby the ICs. If the
onigerned Bank and its bran ches Bre ni it able to remit the afhbunt of premium
collected /debited. wil i cng d.lineline 10 the concemed ICs then they will be
lable to paythe admissible claim farmerswho are deprived of insurance cover.
35.5.10 The IC shall ack nowledge the re ೬ 6/5 premium and reconciliation
reports submitted by te banks landsany’clanfication/rectification sought by ICs
should compulsorily be replied/addressed by the bank within 7 days. The banks
should cross check with their records‘and aberrations, if any, should be brought to
the notice of the IC immediately. Ifnd response is received from banks within cut off i
time/reconciliation period, the details submitted on the Portal shall be considered ~
final and no changes would be accepted later on. ICs will thereafter may act as
deemed fit as per applicable provisions. ಹ
35.5.11 The list of beneficiary farmers with claim amount shall be obtained from the
concemed IC by the Bank Branch/PACS to display at its branch and a copy shall
also be provided to the Chairman/ Sarpanch/ Pradhan of the village Panchayat.
www.pmfby.gov.in
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 203 ---
20) -
35.5.12 To permitIC access to all relevant records / ledgers related to insured farmers at the
Nodal Bank/ Branch/ PACS for the purpose of scrutiny, if desired by them.
35.5.13 Banks should ensure that farmer are not deprived of any benefit under the Scheme
ಜ್ನ due to errors/omissions/commissions of the concerned branch/ PACS, and in case
of such errors, the concemed agencies shall have to make good of all such losses.
. 35.5.14 To educate the farmers on the Scheme features, especially the voluntary nature of
scheme.
35.5.15 To guide the farmers on filling up the insurance proposal in the prescribed forms
and collecting the required documents, particularly in case of non-loanee farmers.
35.5.16 To collect Aadhaar Number and Mobile number of all eligible farmers well before
the start of enrolmenv/debitof premium. F
35.5.17 Maintainingfithe records of the proposalideclarati oftferms and other relevant
documgfitsnd statements for the purpose of scrulinyhyefification by the IC or its
authonzedtepresentatives and 1.110, ifnecessary. Lo
35.5.18 16 recgpcile, validate and provide clarification, if necesSary, ofthe coverage
details to the IC within next 15 days from the cut-off date for data uploading on the
NCIPand within 7 days of the receipt of Such request from IC. %
35.519 Debit /collect the applicable premium from the farmer's account on or before
3 cut-off-date and remit it entirely to the concerned Insurance Company
electronically, ೆ ಸ,
ಬ 35.5.20} Not 19, re fl ithe farmers under sd insura A. for te same crop if the
_. State/District has notified prevented/failed sowing/germibation. §
35.6 * CommonStrvice Centres pecial Pu ase(fehicle (056-570):
35.6.1 To ensure enrolment of non loanee farmers through ity SPV/VLE. é
35.6.2 s[o educate and train the VLES on marketing and sale of crop insura née through the
NGIP and/or through concemed ICsatthe Districtlevel. =
35.6.3 To electronically remit the pre: erected on the ೦5010 the concerned ICs
inbatchesbutnola ಗ, 3.daysof receipt of premium (೮171 1211171615.
35.6.4 ‘Toreconcile the premium atmers to the concerned ICs in T+1 timeline.
35.6.5 To send the daily MIS of the premium remitted along with the summary of insured
ಇ farmers tothe IC.
ಹ 35.66 To reconcile the data uploaded on NCIP afd premium remittance to the concerned
ICs within 7 days post cut-off date for enroiment of farmers.
. 35.6.7 To raise an invoice for pre-agreed service charges per farmer per crop-season
application to the respective IC on or before 10th of following month.
35.6.8 To ensure post sales services and facilitate grievance redressal of the insured
farmers.
i ೫0001/90೧7 ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 204 ---
| 6
20
35.6.9 Will be responsible for accuracy of details and document of individual farmers
uploaded on NCIP and liable for claim payment due to errors and omissions
committed by SPV/VLE.
35.7 Common Service Centres - Village level Enterpreneurs (CSC-VLE): ಇ
| 35.7.1 To educate the farmers especially non-loanee farmers on the feature of the
Scheme . While accepting the application from the individual farmers, CSC-VLE rs
| will explain the provisions and provide details of the documents required. They
must also make the farmers aware of the consequences of incorrect submission of
information/documents. Further, they must ensure that all the documents
submitted by the farmers should be scrutinised thoroughly, verified and uploaded
‘on NCIP in legible form to avoid any anomaly in the coverage of that particular
farmer by Insurance Company.
357.2... 70 display the advertisément, Fulci ater, banner, poster, leaflets ints
premises forfarmers as provided by the [ರತಃ ೧೧೬೧7761.
ಹೆ ie ee || ಬ
35.7.3 To fillg6p tHe’ online 150127೦6. ತತ್ತ te presets fGamat and collect the
regiitred do ments Golf Non-loanee far [೧೯5 only. ಇ“
ಕ ಕ 181] ae | ಳ್ಳ ಕ
35.7.4 €oltectthe premium on behalf of the implementing IC, 511025 perthe provisions
£ ofthe Scheme. 8] &
35.7.5 "| To fill up the correct details of ಎಡೆ farmers and upload the: requisite
|... doctiments along with their, mobile number on NCIP. Due care should be taken in
10/10 0 the details in the application fo ‘each of the insured non-loanee farmer
and ifshould beero s-checked with | 75 documentsaitached inthe application.
| 35.7.6. The VLE-should pare atl termes ಗ deprived of any benefit. +
underithe Scheme due 10,671 issiofis/ commissions by them, and if such a
4 case is tenorted, Necessary administrative and,{egal aetiohwill also be taken for
35.7.8) To facilitate pst sales services, claimdptimation auld grievance redessal of the
es sured AES ee qq 6 ಐ ಜೆ
35.8 Designated Insurance Agents/Insusafice Intermediaries: |<
35.8.1 To edudate the farmers about the {éatures of the Scheme .<
35.8.2 To guide the farmers in filing the] surance : proposal/application in the prescribed
format and collectingithe.required documents’ along with Aadhaar Number and
Mobile Number from non-loanee farmers.
_ 35.8.3 Collect the premium on behalf of the IC, as per the provisions of the Scheme and
issue acknowledgement receipt of proposal to the farmer. .
35.8.4 To enter details along with requisite documents of the individually insured farmer on.
NCIP, transfer the consolidated premium to the concerned IC electronically and 5
digitize the payment details compulsorily on the NCIP within the respective cut-off
dates. Insurance coverage will only be valid for those insured farmers whose
farmers premium is remitted electronically to the ICs and remittance details are
entered/ uploaded on NCIP within the respective cut off dates.
www.pmiby.gov.in:
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ©

--- Page 205 ---
20%

35.8.5 Ensure that the insured farmers are not deprived of any benefit under the Scheme
due to errors/ omissions/ commissions., and if any, the Insurance Company shall
make good all such losses. Necessary administrative and legal action may also be
taken for lapses in service/malpractices, if, reported.

° 35.9 Loanee Farmers:

‘ 35.9.1 As the Scheme is made optional for all loanee farmers availing SAO 10875/4600
loans for notified crops, it is mandatory for all loanee farmers to submit a signed
declaration in case they want to opt-out of the insurance coverage under the
Scheme for a particular season anytime of the year but atleast 7 days before the
cut-off date for enrolment and premium debiting. in case no such "Opt-out"
declaration is submitted by the farmer for the season, he/she will be automatically
covered for the season. Any change in the crop plan should be broughtto the notice
ofthe KCC/agri-loan sanctioning bank-branch immediately but no later than 2 days
prior to the cut off date for the enrolment/and premium debiting. This should be
supported.byra sowing certificate [06 concerned village/ sub-district level
officialoftheState. ಕ್ಟ ್ಶ್ಟ್ರ

111.1. a

35.9.2 Alidioanee farmers are 111] quifed to submit Fath ್‌ of
Sadhaat/card or authenticate themselves through Aadhaafenabled e-KYC along
with mobile number for enrolment under the crop insurance. before the
presctibed cut-off dated penis hayelto compulsorily take Aadhaar/Aadhaar
‘enrolment number as per the notification under Aadhaar Act before sanctioning of
‘crop loan/KCC under Interest Subventior Scheme. Hence the coverage of loanee
farmers without Aadhaar ( "arise such accounts need to be reviewed by

the concerned bank branc! la, 4 EF %

35.9.3)/ | Insurance Proposals are acéeptédio a stipilatéd cut- off date, .
: "decided bythe SLCCCI, Hence, Joa 1079 may ensure from the concerned
bank branches that applicable premiu beer debited and remitted to the ICs
35.9.4 "Give information of ay 1085,due\to al6taliz6d risk of a post-harvest ldss due to
‘specified petils to thejconceined bankgbranch/ financial institution’ channel

_partherfinsurecwithin 72 hours. ಗ್ಗ ನ ೆ
35.9.5 ೦೩70613770 should not avait Kool gricullure Loan from al ‘on the
Sime land or insure the samela wp ousti ore than one bank insure the same
landsmore than once“as asndp-loanee farmer. If any“such cases are
reportédjidentified, the insurance cover will be terminated,the premium shall be
forfeited afid.necessary adminisirath eon local action may also be taken for such

35.10 Non-Loanee Farmers: 1184/2388
35.10.14 Non-loanee farmers desirous of availing insurance under PMFBY for any notified
crop in any notified insurance unit may approach the nearest
. bank-branch/PACS/authorized channel partner/ CSC/insurance intermediary of
Insurance Company or directly fill-up the online application form on the NCIP within
cut-off date and simultaneously upload/ submit the requisite documents and
» applicable premium to concerned agency.
35.10.2 Applicants must sign/authorize electronically (along with copy of Aadhaar
- Card/Aadhaar enrolment ID (if Aadhaar seeding/eKYC has not been completed)
www. pmfby.gov.in

Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY ®

--- Page 206 ---
204
along with the copy of LPC/Land Records/contract document or any other
document defined by the concerned State Government to identify
share-cropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self declaration of intent to sow
the proposed crop and copy of Pass Book to the Bank/Intermediary.

35.10.3 All non-loanee farmers willing to enrol through CSCs are compulsorily required to
submit mobile phone numbers and Aadhaar numbers. They must authenticate
themselves through Aadhaar enabied e-KYC for enrolment under crop insurance "
before the prescribed cut-off date along with the copy of LPC/Land
Records/contract document or any other document defined by the concemed State
Government to identify share-cropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self
declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop, and the copy of Pass Book.

35.10.4 The farmer desiring coverage under crop insurance should open/operate an
account in the branch of the designated bank, and the details should be provided in
the proposal/applicationform.? {| §

ಯ The farmensshould mention his/her land identification number in the
ರಂಭ! f | | | | ಸ್ಯ

35.10.6 4. Provide docdmentary evidence wih regard tothe possession of

ಟ್ರ and. 11೬. ಸ ತ
35.10.71 To notify implementing ಸಂಗ in the event of change of crop or sown
2 areabeing different fromthedetails declared in the proposal form, the CSC or other
35.108 The farmer must furnish ai s4'sown confirmation certificate/self declaration of intent ಳಿ
(1050176 proposed notified 01005). ಈ ಸ
35.10.9, _ Non-Joaneefarriers being coveredthrough other ion "Online éhannels of GSC and ’
A dit rough NGIP etc. shall submit the duly filled proposal/application form along
ಟಿ with copy of adhaar Gar ಗ ೦೦೧ {Land 161 ship proof /contract
“document or ಲ document defined by the toncemed State Government to
8 identify Share-cropper/tenant farmer, Sowing certificate’ prelfdectaratiogiof intent
“yoo to sow the "pro posed ಇ (| oe & 5
35.10.10 | Non-Loanee farmer shotild ed thatthe crop on fhe same land isnot insured
“more than once or insuredibrough twa:different agencies. If any such cases are
‘reported! identified, the insufance cover will be terminated, the premium shall be
ee ಬ ಹು ಬ ni | and legal action may, be taken for
35.10.11 Give information of any loss due fia localized risk or a postharvest loss due to the
specified penis to the <concer Wied bank-branch/ financial institution’ channel
partner/insurerwithin 72 hours. 3 46

36 Enhanced Version of National’ Crop Insurance Portal (EV-NCIP)
for administration of Crop Insurance Program (www.pmfby.gov.in):

36.1 In the implementation of the scheme, multiple stake holders are involved from ಶ್ರ
enrolment of farmers to the claim disbursement to farmers. A hallmark of the
Scheme is leveraging technology adoption for the effective scheme administration.
Inan endeavour to integrate technology in the implementation and execution ofthe
Scheme, the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer's Welfare, Government of India has
designed and developed a National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP)
(nttps://pmfby.gov.in) which serves as a centralized digital platform for all
stakeholders. The idea behind developing a web-based, integrated digital platform
is to speed up service delivery, unify fragmented databases, achieve a single view

www. pmfby.gov.in 9
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 207 ---
9.0%
of data, eliminate manual-processes and thus provide faSter insurance services to
farmers. This in turn will bring in better administration, transparency and
coordination amongst stakeholders viz., Farmers, States, 125, Banks, Common
Service Centre (CSC) & other channels and real time dissemination of information.
The NCIP captures the entire data relating to insured crops and also serves as the
- repository for the data relating to the crop insurance scheme.
36.2 The NCIP is being further enhanced to provide a single Information Technology
ಸ (IT) enabled platform for digitization of processes and information data bank and
dissemination mechanism, automation of administrative procedures, integration of
information and systems across multiple sources, information validation and
premium and claim calculation and remittance etc. This IT driven system aims at
addressing the issues which affect the current system of programme
administration, thereby reduce its efficacy and lead to denial! delay in benefit
transfer to farmers viz. selectivellayered. 1information access, manual interventions,
multi-step procedures, documentary evidence/proofs, delayed/defective
information,sharing etc, Hence, integration of IT platforms of banks, 105, State
Governménis? Yield/weather data providers, Land Records, UIDAI with National
Cropyiisurance Portal directly or through interface for fetching in information is felt
essential/to avoid errors for timely transmission of requisite mean amongst
major stakeholders, early settlement of Claims, proper monitoring and transparent
gprs istration of the Schemes. Once the entire linking 0! IT platforms of all
“’ stakeholders with the Web Portal is established, it would also lead to faster
processing of claims due to electronic flow of information. 1 this Portal is
‘> available in two languages - Hindi and English and it will be converted into all
iy regional languages. ; a %
36.3 . ಟರ ಪ್ಪ ಲಲ ಪ development of web-portal jas already been
completed afd launched and facilitates for the notification /digitization, ‘farmers.
‘ bs: application 6nrolment, application management, User management etc. subsidy
|, release, management, claim disbursement Pe other ಯಯ are
a proposed to be made available in the next of NCIP wherein following
36.4 “k-*ModulesofNCIP: “oO 11 f- ಬ ತ
36.4.1 A Integration of, NCIP 1131116 tech systems of the ICs using Block Chain
“technology: 5 > ಳೆ ತೆ
ಹ ಗ ಲ j E ಜ್‌
ICS,are one of the: stakeholders 1೦ 1110. 1 tation ofsthe scheme and .
ee ಸರು ಹ
portal from different sources, areiValidated by the ICs an sproval or rejection of
applicationShappen. The ICs have their own system ss the application and
claim caloulalioh@integration 01 NCIP with ಜು system of the IC will
be done for the flow of informatio pence ‘an automated manner over block
chain network. Block chain nodes shall be created at NCIP and at the IC's end.
Farmer Applications and other relevant details will be replicated to the respective
* IC database. NCIP and IC's nodes shall always be in sync. Changes in NCIP node
* will automatically update the information on IC node over block chain network.
2 NCIP node will be the primary source of data.
= 36.4.2 Integration with Public Fund Management System:
The NCIP shall be integrated with PFMS and a platform shall be developed for
managing financial transactions to facilitate release of State/Gol share of premium
www.pmfby.gov.in ಅ
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 208 ---
` 6
subsidy, account verification ಸಾ of insurance claims by the companies to
the farmers.
Online remittance of premium by Financial Institutions:
Data related to the farmers, having crop loan from Banks, is being entered by the
Banks on the portal and the corresponding farmer premium, which is deducted by
the banks, is remitted to corresponding IC. However, the transactions relatedto ,
such remittance are not executed through the Portal at present. Such transactions
take place directly from the Banks’ system to the account of the ICs. Itis proposed
to develop a platform for remitting the consolidated farmer premium by the Bank
branches tothe ICs through a third-party payment gateway.
A third-party payment gateway will be integrated with NCIP for the remittance of
farmer premium by the Bank branches. The remitted amount will be added in a
wallet of the Bank-Branch. Bank-Branch can remit the amount multiple times. For
each transaction, an Unique ID (UTR) will be assigned, Branch will add the farmer
applicatigfivagainst the UTR up to the UTR er oon as an application is
added#ithearmer premium ಗದಗ hy 360೦00 vill'be deducted from the
UTRamgiint and the balance amountwill be shown, =“,
36.4.3 f" oft Coverage of Crop Risk: i
& The State/UT has the option to notify Add-on Cover perils cover with or without
ತ್ತೆ Basie Cover (Yield base cover). Selection of risk will be made available on portal as
Fe per th ೮ provisions available in the guidelines. In the notification module, ‘Option will
=, be provided to the States/UTs to select the add-on coverage separately 2೦೦೦೫೮1೧. i
{to the crop and.insurance unit along with the Basjc,Cover as per the nolification.
1... Clainiwillbe gAleulated ಜೌ @ pied for the crop and IU.
> Farmers} having crop tani iat institutions, covered under the Scheme,
“can changetthe instited’erop ! pto 2 working days beforelthe cut-off-date: Farmer
"\ can raise\the crop Change\reqdest for thescurrent s@ason as per ಕೊಸ
"ಹೈ guideline through 11೮/7) ೧೯೦೧ ‘inst Seg pp, call centre or through.concerned
“financial institutions. Intima engine cfop change fequest and its status will be
“Ashared with thé farmer via SMS: Alsdy'interface will be provided off NCIP/Crop
‘Insurance App to check the request status. Crop change request will be displayed
totligeofesponding stake holder fornecessary action. 4
Due 191000 change, sum insured.and premium will change'accordingly. Changes
in application details due to changg’in crop will be carriedjout on the next version of
NCIP under Which a crop change facility shall 26771011666. Option to manage
excess and ಜಡ ೧711171 will _besprovided and 2170001/3768 will be
managed accordingly. sae
36.4.5 Land Record Integration:
Land record detail is one of the major requirements under the PMFBY scheme. =>
Manual verification of the land record data is a challenge. Many States/UTs have
digitized land record system, however their hierarchal system and practices are
different. DAC & FW is moving forward to integrate the States/UTs land record *
system with NCIP to validate the farmer's land parcel with land record system.
States will share the land record API subsequent to which integration of land
records of the State(s) with NCIP shall be executed. The land record details of the
_——_Www.pmify.govin
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY @

--- Page 209 ---
200-
farmers will be entered during enrolment process and rest of the details shall be
fetched through the State land record portal. The user will be required to verify the
land record details.
36.4.6 Centralised Call Centre:
Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer's Welfare has setup Kisan Call Center for the
ಸ farmers. The services of Kisan Call Centre shall be utilized for PMFBY also. Kisan
Cail Centre operator will access this application to answer farmer's queries.
Claim related query can be raised through this platform by Farmers. Information
available with NCIP is to be communicated to the farmers through the created
platform. Any information not available under NCIP can be logged and displayed to
the State and corresponding insurance company for providing the same to the
farmer. of fat
Beene
Any query oncomplaint of ne be registered on.the NCIP against a unique
ticket nurfiber, The ticket humber will be’shared wilh the farmer through SMS
indicating the tentative ti line.
Query of complaint registeted wit ತ್ತಿ e will be 10110810೧/28ಸ06/019/13/6 10-
the concemed Stakeholder. The Stakeholder can forward it further down in its own
hierarchy or to another stakeholder if the matter concems some other stakeholder.
Query/Complaint will be 1056 by the concerned stakeholder. Progress status
will be intimated to the fay mervia SMS and the same will be updated on portal.
3 36.4.7 Integration. en Pre der: 3
| ಹ ಗ Crop i surance Sclem (RWBEIS) is based on the
‘ ೩ ಬ weather pat ers for the! daims 1 Weather parameter is’ provided by India
a Meteorological Department (IMD) or otheragencigs nolified BY State. Integration of
ಕ IMD of ether weather a /s platform with NGIP shall bamade for faster claim
|| calculation. Term 5 zation option will be incorporated in NCIP. The
“option ce stomized as, per the reqties rhe Stale overnment. API based
integration b 1೦001 1103200 the IMD/Wed ogee GV enti by the State for
© the sharing 6f weather parameters’ data f6'NCII Pils gfoposed: Claimsalculation
“)y will be done foh RWBCIS bypthe systentb ased on (16 weather data shared by the
“ Weather agency andihe digitized te dsheet, Zi ee
36.4.8 Integration with Mahalanobis National Crop Fartant Cong ೦೯೦):
= ie ಕ್ಕ ತ್ಯ ಬಜ ಸತತ
To streamline the flow of information amongst stakeholders; the portal will also be
a) Settlement of Yield data dispittes ordisputes relating to crop loss.
b) ACF (Area Correction Factor) for insured crop for every season.
c) Satellite data-based Clustering. ಡಾ
0). 17150/9107 of smart sampling tool for CCE plot selection.
- e) Integration of innovative technology driven approach for rationalisation
of CCE.
f) __ Integration with the technique that is being developed for estimation of crop
yield at gram panchayat level.
www.pmfby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 210 ---
=
: 208
g) Cadastral level crop and land ownership verification.
h) Smart Sampling technique and Optimisation of CCE: Integration between
MNCFC and NCIP through API.

36.4.9 Location Master Management: 4
Location master is the base for the implementation of the PMFBY Scheme. The ಟ್ರ
scheme PMFBY is based on the State's revenue hierarchy. The revenue hierarchy
is dynamic, differs from State to State and there might be changes from season to
season on account of re-organization of revenue units or creation of new units.
NCIP is therefore required to be equipped with related provisions to capture the
re-organization of the hierarchy.

Option for addition, amendment and deletion of revenue unit is being considered
under the revenue locatiorihierarchy.in the NCIP database. The option will work in
a maker and,checker scenario. Stakeholders like Bank, CSC, Districts, etc. can
request for the addition Of the location unit. State will-verify the request and either
approve orfeject. System will validate the request and display its analysis to the
Stalésaga@helpingtool.© ©
ತಡ 06 ಎ0 4s A}
36.4.10 {Conversion of data into regional languages: + %,
> Existing crop insurance portal supports 11 regional languages including Hindi.
f° ಗಂ (e\ er, the data is entered in English only. To support the multilinguafidata, it is
( _ requited to convert the data into State specific local languages Web pages of the
© EV-NCIPwillbe made enabled in all the supporting languages along with English. 1
ಮ ಟ್ಟ ಉ Fram ಗಳ Reporting: 1 ಟು
a Module, wise web reports for monitoring the prog ess ofgscheme. on different
a parameters. Reports shalll be drillableand printable till the lower level. Reports will
"be developed with, the development of th/correSpgnding entry. modules.
, . Comparative reports withtearlier, respective 5625075 ondifferent parameters for
ರೆ ಕಗ 6 reports will haye unique names per the
BS eps 0 ಸ ind time s\ ಜ್‌ ತ
‘search module willbe availabe in eactl stakeholders login on 010/2! parameters
ಕ್ರ Sion master Search, ಉಂಟ etc. Further the searcit is to be made
available by sub attribute also. ay ance Search will be available on sub attributes
of the parameters. <
36.4.12 CCE Agri Apps ಯ ‘
Mobile application has been developed and is being used for capturing the CCE
data from the field and for uploading on the server. CCE Agri app works in both
online and offline mode. CCE Agri app captures, From-1 and Form-2 data along
with geo-coordinated photographs. Itis customizable as per the requirementofthe >
States. Further, following functionalities are to be enabled:
a) CCEschedule digitization: ವ
State schedules the CCE for the insurance unit and crop. State selects the village
(1110 is at higher level) and plot (Survey/Sub Survey no.) randomly for conducting
the CCE. There will be two ways to select the CCE ploti.e. through smart sampling
www.pmfby.gov.in ®
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 211 ---
೨.೦೨
technique or conventional method. In State's login, option to declare the randomly
selected village of the IU and survey number /sub survey number of CCE field for a
crop. State will declare the locations for the selection of CCE field according to
smart sampling technique or the conventional technique. In smart sampling
. technique, the geo-coordinates and survey/sub survey number for the CCE field
will be shared by MNCFC through API. The schedule of the CCE will be approved
by the State. The approved schedule will be available to the corresponding
. insurance company for the co-observance.
b) Smart Sampling technique:
MNCFC will share the Geo-coordinates of the CCE field through API and the same
will be shared to the CCE-Agri app based on the declaration done by the State for
the use of smart sampling technique. CCE app will validate the CCE primary
worker's Gein with thegco-ordinates shared for smart sampling
technique. A significant buffer distance between CCE primary worker's
geo-coordinates and smal vlna will be allowed. ಕಾ
GCE specifications may di wn 3m State to State i.e. ಉದಯ units of CCE
field, shape of CCE plot ete. State specific customization is required for the smooth
4 implementation of CCE ie igh GCE app. 4 ’
36.4.13 , CropinsuranceApp: . 1. i 4
ಈ Es op Insurance App is mobile based ‘app developed for the farmers: Through this
app! farmers can enroll, themselves ‘directly andgcan trac ct e status of their
application anid the status imsThe app ill bealso enabled for Crop Loss
‘ intimation and Crop ೧! Intimation. - |
36.4.14)  Claimm 1 le andiits alignment ee ೧೧10: . /
| Claim 760/5 is tOybBedeveloped uridergNCIP with’ tunctionality for claim
calculation, elaim appravallréjection etc. State will be‘facilitated to upload the 1U
4 and crop wise AY and 11 Se son wis 6. Psévisions for following Claims Type will be
“Gk, CCE based widespreadGa ಸ Bs
b. "MI&-Season Adversity. i ಇ
d. Localized ಕಳ 12 —
e. Post-HarvestLosses
‘ f. | Weather based Claims for RWBCIS
36.4.15 Calculation of Service Charges:

ಇ: 115 proposed to calculate the Bank and CSC charges through NCIP on the basis of
the number of applications and to automatically transfer the service charges to the
respective channel through the NCIP interface. In cases, where the farmer's
premium 15 borne by the Goverment, the service charges shall be calculated on
the actual farmer premium irrespective of the amount deducted/paid.

www.pmfby.gov.in ®
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 212 ---
6
22%
Bank and CSC service charges will be calculated on NCIP as per the approved
application. It will be calculated at the end of the season to minimize the variation.
Auto calculated service charges will be available in insurance company login for
approval. The approved, commission will be paid to the Bank and CSC through the
third party payment gateway. ಫ
36.4.16 Seasonality Discipline:
>
Scheme PMFBY/RWBCIS are driven by seasonality discipline and accordingly the
provisions under the portal for different users shall be automated as per the dates
notified.
36.4.17 Intermediary Module:
Intermediaries are the representatives of empanelled 105 and responsible for the
enrolment of the of i non-loanee farmers. Intermediaries web interface is
enabled forthe enrolment of farmers. As, of now the.option is enabled for the
insurang¢icompany for whi ಜರ ಹು is allocated i.e, , Whinsurance company as
per teriderAs per the guidelines other empanelied ICs\whiehnhave participated in
etbiddirig and are ie rolment of'non loanee 1೨110151 the cluster may
also be“allowed to enrol non-foanee farmers at L1 premium rate}The interested
éompanies have to info eit willingness in writing Within séyen days of
ಕ finalisation of tender/isstiance of work orderto Lt. ತೆ ಸ್ಕಿ
iy Eman ICs which ave participated in the bidding will be mapped with the
& district under NCIP. The Option will be available in the State 5011 State admin login.
|. 77017180066 insurance any must’agree/approve the mapping a: the =
1 ೪/70/೧೮55 shoWn to State forthe coverage. This option will be available it IC's
=~ adminlogin.¢ AY ತೆ :
|| Provided that, inorder lo,enstre ‘control over the sources ಸಾ ತ್ಯಾ
೦೦೧೦೫5 shall ಲ್ವಾಗ/ oul 0/೦1 ೦೧1 11710! the intefmediary channel. For
=, depositing the collécted. farmer: 01 emium, tothe insurance company 18000071,
ಆ challan orwallet s\ “S ಸ BS
36.418 \\ Emailand SMS platforms, = |
‘Email and SMS platformwill be enhanced for sending: the jntimations or
acknowledgement to the stakeholddis. SMS will be sent fo ovay change in the
5185 of the application for thetarmer. System generated mails‘will be sent to the
, i ee
36.4.19 Amount based notification ane hens moll cation:
Notification is the base fogthe.egrolment“6f application of farmers under NCIP.
Under notification, the State declares the crop, premium rate, scale of finance and
other parameters. Currently, premiumsamount is calculated on the basis of the
premium rate and scale of finance defined under notification. Revised guidelines :
allow State to exempt the farmer's premium but, in such cases, differentialpremium "
will be borne by the State Government. However, in this scenario at least Rs.1 will
be taken from farmer as token money to have the record of such applications on the
Portal. Also, if the State provides the exemption for the farmer's premium forcertain  ~
limit of land area, then their will be a provision of same on Ev-NCIP.
a) Absolute amount-based farmer premium:
‘www.pmiby.gov.in @
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY.

--- Page 213 ---
ತ ೨.11
Enabling option- 17 notification to declare the farmer premium in absolute
amount. In such cases the State will enter the premium amount instead of
percentage. However, total arnount of farmer premium will not exceed the amount
calculated in terms of percentage defined in the tender notification. Also, the State
ಜ್ಞ may define that this exemption will be facilitated on the first ೧೬೧7 first serve basis
upto certain limit. For example, for the first 100 applications the farmer premium
may be Rs.1 only.
: b) Limited area-based notification:
State limits the farmer premium subsidy upto certain limit of the insured area for a
farmer. If the insured area exceeds the defined limit, then farmer has to pay the full
premium for the exceeded area insured. The notification module will be
customizable as perthe State requirement based on key parameters.
36.4.20 Integration of NCIP with Crop Insurance portal of States:
Some States é.g., Karnataka have theit own crop 118/3000 portals and farmers
data is‘eaptiired on their State portal, Integration of State's portal with the NCIP is
reqtlired for the flow of information forcentralized monitoring.
State will share the API for transferring the data from State's Portalito NCIP. The
pres Will be tested with the input parameter for the desired output. All the attributes
| felated to farmer, farmer enrolment, threshold yield, actual yield, ೮8/75 610. will be
¢ shared. Any update in the records must be brought into sync with the NCI P.
, 36.4.211  Aadhaar Vaultimplementation: &
| Aadhaar NupiBeand Aadhaar related informatiod lalbe encrypted by a reference
= | key and stored in Aadhaar Vault; all protocols to be defined asiper UIDAI guidelines
ಕ will be followed. Bes sf i i 4
36.422) Subsidyreleasefeamework: | 11 ‘
re ed
4 Subsidy isan important part of the scheme4Gol and State Government share the
>, insurance premium subsidy: Subsidy reléase framework is to be implemented
(through NCIP to keep trackof the movement of subsidy from the State and Central
\Governmenttothe ICs, é ಗ್ದ ಕ್ಕ
Opt ಸ the State and Central Subsidy by the syStem itself as per
ಹ, ಬಟ ಯಮ್ಮ company
can raisethe subsidy release request with the State Government through NCIP.
All the subsidy felease sanction order will be ent ered the State and Gol in NCIP.
Insurance CompanyWiller ಸ pence i ls onthe NCIP.
36.4.23 Intermediary Mobile Module/Web Module:
Intermediaries are the representatives of empanelled ICs and responsible for the

ತ enrolment of the non-loanee farmers. Development of the mobile based
application for capturing the date of farmer enrolmentand premium collection.

. Option will be enabled in the intermediary app to enrol the farmer's application for
the selected season and year. Enrolment will capture all the required fields and
necessary document through app and will be available on NCIP. Option to pay the
farmer premium of the enrolled application will be implemented through wallet or
challan system. ೯

www.pmiby.gov.in (ii)
Revamped Operational Guidelines of PMFBY

--- Page 214 ---
ಸ 5 Universal Sompo
General Insurance
" ತಾಪಾಸಾಷಾಸಾಸಾಷಾ
| * UsGI/PMFBY/KR-2022/1000002 Date: 26% July 2022
* Ve pe 1
| 10001 Director Agriculture,
Govt. of Karnataka,
Chitradurga.
Sub:  PostHarvest intimation of Greengrom Rainfed Crop in Chitradurga District during Kharif'22
Dear Sir,
Greetings from Universal Sompo General insurance Co, Ltd. (USGIC),
ಕ We have received total 2826 intimations of post ~ harvest in green gram crop during season Khatif'22 in Chitradurga district of which
3498 intimations are from your good office.
. "in the event of losses due to post harvest peril, crops are under cut and spread conditions but during aur visit in the random fields of |
Chitradurga district we failed to observe any such situation as craps were harvested and not present in the field. |
* In the absence of damaged crops in the field it will be difficult to assess such claims and further will result to ೧೧೧ — payment of those |
claims.
‘As per operational guidetines:- |
"21.6.1 Provision has been made for assessment of loss on individual plot basis in the case of occurrence of hailstorm, cycione, cyclonic
rains. and wnseasonal rains resulting in damage to harvested crop tying in the field in ‘cut and spread'/small bundied condition
depending on nature of the crop 17 that area kept solely to dry upto @ mdxiinum period of two weeks (14 days) from harvesting. For
indemnification of post-harvest crop losses, the provision of damage of furvested crops due te unseasonol rains sho! trigger when the
unseasonal rainfall is more than 20% over long period average for the month for that sub-district/district. However, this is subject to
confirmation of the damage in the joint survey to be conducted hy concerned State Government. and Insurance Campony. The
States/UTs have to campulsarily natify the crops 10 be included under post-harvest losses along with the harvesting window in the Bid
Document, Notification and ೧೧ the NCIP. The crops not falling under the oforesoid category/not included in the tender shall not be
included ater for post-harvest lass cover.”
~ + Even the reported date of loss was 19" July 2027 and intimation dates were 22" and 23° July 2022 so harvesting of all fields including
the damage area is not possible as per report of intimations trom your good office. If the harvest happened in the field the intimations
will not be considered for claims.
Supported photographs of the fields are attached for your reat reference
. We are here to urge you to jain for sample survey inHosadurga taluk green gram post-harvest losses assessment following procedure
fot your ready reference and attached sample survey farmer list submitted at your good office.
21.6.3.6 1! the number of intimations as compared to the number af insured farmers for that particular crop is less than 25%, then ೫.
7 individual survey of all the farmers shall be done. This assessment shall be done for each insured crop individually in the 1U,
21.6.3.7 Ifthe number of intimations as compared to the number of insured farmers in the fU is more than 25% for the insured crops,
then the survey of farmers will be done through 3 random selection of the farmers from the intimation list using the random number
‘Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd = wee
Reatered &Corbotate Ofice Unit No103,1™ Floor Ack Sat MIOC Central Rood ,Gautaen Nagar Ander (e,Mumbsi 400083 14902003.
“Twi02243659000/43659000} ol Free No :1-800-22-4030 /2-800 2004030) Webste ‘Universalspmps. can.
Email contacisdbunivesalsomipacom | (11/016603/0/1700791 160770 |IROA! Regd 134
‘Sangalo cee 3 Floor, XW Samat 217/A.3" Main Outer ಟ್‌ ‘S6O043
| a
|

--- Page 215 ---
b Universal Sompo ಕ
೨.13 General Insurance
?:1213 Sorsichs, Hamesha Aapke Saath
table. In this case, the losses will not be considered 24 individual and will be presumed widespread. Theretore, the claim to all eligible
insured farmers (who have given intimation/for whom intimation has been received) would be paid ad-hoc.
21.6,3.8 The tentative sample size would be as under:
11111730011 Survey en
೨2594 to <=50% 25% of the Intimations would be surveyed =
‘We look forward far your continued patronage.
With worm regatds, 7
|
|
For, Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd
Enct:
1, Photographs 3
ce
| 1, Commissioner Agriculture, Department of Agriculture, Bangalore, Karnataka.
|
| ಆ
Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Lid _
teatered spr Often ich °c Ack Se OE Cn end tar Rag Anche (Elba ASE ahs

--- Page 216 ---
te she; ೨1೮, ಈ್ರಾ
ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ವಿ೦ ತ್ರಾ
ಜಂಟ ಇಡಿ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ಪರಜಾಯತ್‌,
1 ಚ್ಟ ಹ ಶಕರ ಕಛೇರಿ, ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಆರ್‌.ಎಂ.ಸ. ಯಾರ್ಡ್‌ ರಸ್ತೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ -577501
i Sa ತ Email :109211613/91/21100.60.11
॥ ನ ವಿಮ/ತನಿಖೆ/2833-3% 'ಡಿನಾಂಕ12-87-2633
a
= ಮಾನ್ಯ ಅಪರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು,
ಬೆಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಕಛೇರಿ, |
ಮಾನ್ಯರೇ,
ವಿಷಯ:- ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ ಪರತುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ
ಬೆಳೆ: ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ಹಣ ದುರುಪಯೋಗ ಪಡಿಸಿಕೊಂಡಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ತನಿಖೆ
| ನಡೆಸಿ, ವರದಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸುವ ಕುರಿತು.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ:- 1. ದಿನಾಂಕ: 23-06-2023 ರಂದು ನಡೆದ ಕೆ.ಡಿ.ಪಿ, ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
2. ದಿನಾಂಕ: 11-07-2023 ರ ತಮ್ಮ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
| ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
44
ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡ ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, 2022-23 ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಯ ಚಳ್ಳಕಿರೆ
ss ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮದ ರೈತರು ದೂರಿರುವಂತೆ, ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ
ಪರಿಹಾರದಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದಿದೆ. ಎನ್ನಲಾದ ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರದ ಕುರಿತು ಸಮಗ್ರ ತನಿಖೆಯನ್ನು ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ದಿನಾಂಕ:
. 18-07-2023 ರಂದು ಪೂರ್ವಾಹ್ನ 11.00 ಗಂಟೆಗೆ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿಗೆ ಈ ಕೆಳಕಂಡ
ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ತಂಡದ ಜೊತೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಲು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ (2) ರ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಸೂಚಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.
ಕ್ರಸಂ. Dan soud ಅಧಿಕಾರಗಳ ಹೆಸರ | BRO
Bp WSF ಎಂ.. ನ
ಚೆ F ಉಪ ವಿಭಾಗ, ಚಿತ್ರದುಗ'
ಉಪ ವಿಭಾಗಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು REST WO: Age
Be homme ೫. =o
ಹಾ ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ
ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಲಾ
ಕಾಸ್‌ ಪಾಷಾ, =
ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ
ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಜಟ.
4 Babs ಸರತ SOesVos ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರ eeaTDOs ಸಾರ
ತ್‌ Br BU nee ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು ತ್‌್‌
ae Bf GOS, ಹತಾ ಹಾಸಸರ್ಸಕ್‌ [ಹೂರಪರ್ಸಲ್‌ 72558 Gay
ಶ್ರೀ ಸು
| | | ಸೋ೦ಪೊ ಜನರಲ್‌ ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿ ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ
ತ Bf av ee. telat ತ ಸರ್‌ ತಂತ್ರ
| 7 2 ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ
ಕೃಷಿ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿ (ಪ್ರಭಾರೆ) oe ee
a | = ಕಾಡ ಕಛೇರಿ,
ಹ 3 | ಶ್ರೀಮತಿ ದುರ್ಗಮ್ಮ, ಗ್ರಾಮ ಲೆಕ್ಕಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿ

--- Page 217 ---
a
a
೨.1%
ಸವರಿ ತಂಡದವರು ತನಿಖಾ ಸಮಯದಲ್ಲಿ ಈ ಕೆಳಗಿನ ಹಾಗೂ ಇನ್ನಿತರೆ ಅಂಶಗಳ ಬಗ್ಗ
ಕೂಲಂಕುಷವಾಗಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಿ, ಮುಂದಿನ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ವರದಿ ನೀಡಲು ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು
ಸೂಚಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಅದರಂತೆ, ತನಿಖಾ ತಂಡದ ಎಲ್ಲಾ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ದಿನಾಂಕ: 18-07-2023 ರಂದು
ಪೂರ್ವಾಹ್ನ 1.00 ಗಂಟಿಗೆ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ ಹಾಜರಿರಬೇಕಾಗಿ, ಕೋರಿದೆ. |
-ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಬೇಕಾದ ಅಂಶಗಳು:-
1. ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ನೊಂದಾಯಿಸಿರುವವರ ಹೆಸರು ಮತ್ತು ಪಹಣಿಯಲ್ಲಿರುವ ಹೆಸರು ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸವಿರುವ
ಬಗ್ಗ:
2. UE ವಿಮೆ ನೊಂದಾಯಿಸಿರುವವರ ಹೆಸರು ಹಾಗೂ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಡೆದಿರುವವರ ಖಾತೆ
ಸಂಖ್ಯೆಯಲ್ಲಿರುವ ಹೆಸರು ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸವಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ.
3, ನೊಂದಾಯಿಸಿರುವ ಬಿಳಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಬೆಳೆ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ವ್ಯತ್ಕಾಸವಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ.
ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು-
1. ಮಾನ್ಯ ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌. ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ನೀಡಿದೆ.
2. Bader ಸಬ್‌ ಇನ್‌ಸ್ಟೆಕ್ಟ, ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಠಾಣೆ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ನೀಡಿದೆ.
3. ಉಪ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ತೋಟಗಾರಿಕೆ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ. ಹಾಗೂ ಸೂಕ್ತ
ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ನೀಡಿದೆ. A |
4, ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ. ಇವರಿಗೆ. ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಸೂಕ್ತೆ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ
ಕಳುಹಿಸಿದೆ.
5, ಕಛೇರಿ ಪ್ರತಿ. .
ತಮ್ಮ ನಂಬುಗೆಯ,
ಟಿ
ರ್ಗ.
ಆ

--- Page 218 ---
: 2.6 i
=r ಟೆ
ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌ರವರ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ BOL” ಚಳ್ಳಕಿರೆ-5775))
e-mail” 00001110011 phone: 08195-250246
UOC Tritt ನಾಲ್‌ ಈ avi ಜೌ ಟೂ
ಪ ಸಂಬೆವಿಿಮುಭವಾಸ್ಯ203 24 4440404 ಗಿಸಾಂಕ8-07-1073
ವಿಷಯ- 7012-23 ನೇ ಸಾರಿನ ಚ ವಿಮೆ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಹಿ.ಮಹದೇವಮರ
. ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ಗ್ರಾಮಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಪೌವತಿಯಾಗಿರುವುದರಲ್ಲಿ ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸ
ಆಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ತನಿಖೆ ಮಾಡಲು ಅಧಿಕಾರಿ/ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಯನ್ನು ನಿಯೋಜಿಸಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ.
ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡ ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ 2022-23ನೇ ಸಾರಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂ
ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿಯ ಹಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ದಿನಾಂಕ 18-07-2023 ರಂದು
ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಆನೇಶದಂತೆ ತನಿಖಾ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಕಂಡ ಸದರಿ ಗ್ರಾಮಕ್ಕೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿ, ರೈತರು
ತಮ್ಮ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ದುರುಪಯೋಗದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಅಹವಾಲಗಳನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿ ಸಮಗ್ರ ತನಿಖೆಗೆ ಗ್ರಹಿಸಿರರು, ಆರ
ಕಾರಣ ದಿನಾಂಕ 25-07-2023 ರಂದ th dude ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಕೂಲಂಸಷವಾಗಿ daw ನಡೆಸಿ ವರದಿ
. ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ. ಅದರಂತೆ ತನಿಖಾ ತಂಡದ ಎಲ್ಲು ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ದಿನಾಂಕ 25-07-2023 docs
: ಪೂರ್ವಾಹ್ನ 11:00 ಗಂಟೆಗೆ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇನಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮದಲ್ಲಿ ಹಾಜರಿರಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ.
ತ ಷರಾಷಾಾಸ ತಡರ್ಪಾಕತ್ರತ್ರಾಶತ) ರೊರವಾಣ
೬ ಹೆಸರು (ಶ್ರೀ/ಶ್ರೀಮತಿ) ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ
Dose (BaD )
ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ
ಆಟ
ಜೆ.ಆಶೋಕ್‌ ಸಹಾಯಕ [ರ್ಷಾಧಾಸ್ಯಾಸಾಸಹ್ವಸಣಹಾಹಸ
ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಹೋಬಳಿ ಹ 9980917312
ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಕಾರ್ಟರ್ಪಫಾಾ್‌್‌. A
ಪಿಮಹದೇವಪುರ. 9535096574
8
j fi
ಕ ಟಿ
@ Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 219 ---
a Aly =:
ಸ್ಟ ಸ್ಕಿ : 7
“ಸು ಜಂಟ ಕೃ ರ್ದೇಶಳ ಕೇಂ).
ತರಗ ies ಆರ್‌.ಎಂ. ರಸ್ತೆ, ಚತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-577591 ler ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ
ದೊರವಾಗು91104-12230/ Email: jdagrictafyahoo.co. in
7 SSARAUG IRQ Sacral oped 1೫ = U3
ಇದುಗ್ಕೆ
ಡ್ಯ ರಾಜ್ಯ ಪ್ರತಿ 4
| ಯುನಿವರ್ಶಲ್‌ ಸೋಂಪೋ ಜನರಲ್‌ ಇನ್ಸೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನ್ನಿ
tg ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ
' ` ವಿನಯ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲು ವ್ಯಕ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ಹಣವನ್ನು ದುರುಪಯೋಗ ಪಡಿಸಿಕೂಂಡಿರವ
| ಬಸ್ಗೆ ಸಮಗ್ಪವಾಗಿ ವರರಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವ ಕುರಿತು.
೫ ಉಜ್ಜೇ: 1. ದಿ: 21062022ರಂದು ನಡೆದ 4.0.4 ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
| 2. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇನರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ; ಗ್ರಾಲೆ.ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ:ಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2023-24,
6: 27.06.2023,
3. Ome 1107,2023ರಂದು ಮಾನ್ಯ ಆಪರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚತ್ರರುರ್ಗ ಇವರ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ
ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಜರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
4. ದಿನಾಂಕ 21072023ರಂದು ನಡೆದ NCORD ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡ ವಿಷಯ ಹಾಗೂ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಯಲ್ಲಿ, 2022-23ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನ ಮುಂಗಾರು
ಹಂಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ 9 ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ. ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು ನಡೆದಿವೆ. ಎಂದು, ರೈತರು ದೂರಿರುವ ಪ್ರಯುಕ್ತ dy ಎನು: ಕ
ಪರಿಷಾರ ವಿತರಣೆಯಾಗಿರುವ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿ 6। ಕೆಳಗಿನ ಅಂಶಗಳ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಕೂಲಂಕುಕವಾಗಿ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಆಯಾ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ ಸಹಾಯಕ ಶೃಷಿ
ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರ ತಲೇರಿಗಳಿಗೆ ನೀಡಿ ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು ಠಃ ಕಛೇರಿಗೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ.
. |. 80 ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿತರಣಿಯಾಗಿರುವ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಭೂಮಾಲೀಕರೇ ಫೊಂದಾಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿಕೊಂಡು ಅವರ ಹೆಸರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ
oa 2, G0 ವಮ ಪರಿಹಾರ ವಿರಣೆಯಾಗಿರುವ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿ dh ನೊಂದಾಣಿದಾರರು ಹಾಗು ಭೂಮಾರಿರ ಜೌಸ-ದೃಚ್ಯಸವಿರುವವರ
ಪಟ್ಟ
5 3. ನೊಂದಣಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಧೂಮಾಲಿ॥ ಹೆಸರಿನಲ್ಲಿ ವೃತ್ಯಾಸವದ್ದಲ್ಲಿ ಅವರಿಂದ ಪಡೆದುಕೊಂಡಿರುವ ದಾಖರಾತಿಗಳ ಪ್ರತಿ.
4. ಸ್ವ ನಿರ್ದಿಷ್ಟ ಪ್ರತಿ ವಿರೋದ ಹಾಗೂ EY ಕಬಾವಿನ ನಂತರ ಜಮಿಣನಲ್ಲಿ ಒಣಗಲು Hype ಸಂದರ್ಭದಲ್ಲಿ
`ಂಡಮಾಯಿತ, ಅಕಾಲಿಕ ಮಳೆಯಿಂದಾಗಿ ಬೆಳ ನಾಶವಾಗಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಗೆ ಅನುಸರಿಸಿದ ಮಾನದಂಡಗಳು ಹಾಗೂ
ಸಮೀಕ್ಷಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು 8 FNS ಕೋಷ್ಯಕದಂತೆ ಸಲ್ಫೆಸಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ.
ನಪ್ಪ ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆಗೆ i ಟೆ ಬೆಳೆ ನಷ್ಟವಾದ | ಜರಿಜಾರ
‘= trace ರಾ =e oe uy cee | ay
Le ee ke |
ಸಹ
. ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು.
ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ
ot ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು, | ಮಾಸ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದೆ ”
2. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಆಪರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಸಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
mA 3. Nene art ೩ ston ನೀಡುತ್ತ ಸರು ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಪಡದ, ವರದಿಯ ಸ್ಯಾ ಸತ್ಯತೆ ಬನ
ಕೂಲಂದರವಾಗಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲು ಈ ಮೂಲಕ ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ್ದ 7
ಸ 4. ಎಲ್ಲಾ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರಿಗೆ ನೀಡುತ್ತಾ ಸದರಿ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಪಡೆದು, ವರದಿಯ a, rat
ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಕೂಲಂಬಿರವಾಗಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲು ಈ ಮೂಲಕ tena, 4
ಕ vp ತದ್ಮು totes,
” ವ
ofc eset if
ಜಕ್ಕವಿಕಲೇಲಿ (ಜಂಟ rae
13023 ಕರ್ಸ್‌
| ೪1915
| ಹ್‌
(೮ Scanned ಟ್ಟ

--- Page 220 ---
7 ‘ ತೆ
2 thon-
| ಸಹಾಯ! a 2
1 ಸಹಾ 57752
wi! ಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರ ಕಛೇರಿ, ಕೃಷಿ ಇಲಾಖೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ-577
ಎ ದೂರವಾಣಿ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ 08104-250205, ಈ ಮೇಲ್‌: addaclk@yahoo.co.in
ht ಕ 0564655594666386536059555494456546365959955353858588855438853885353,
ಸರಿಸಕ್ಕನಿ/ಚ/ಪಿ.ಮ/ಪ್ರಘುಿ,ಯೋ/2022-23 ದಿನಾಂಕ: 08-08-2023
8 ಇವರಿಗೆ
ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು. §
೬ ಚಿತ್ರದರ್ಗ
‘ ಮಾನ್ಯರೇ,
ವಿಷಯ-- ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿಯ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ
ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯ ಹಳ್ಳಿಗಳಲ್ಲಿ 2022-23 ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಧಾನ ಮಂತ್ರಿ ಫಸಲ್‌
ಭೀಮಾ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ರೈತರಿಗೆ ವಿತರಿಸಿರುವ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪ್ರಕ್ರಿಯೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರ ನಡೆದಿರುವುದಾಗಿ ರೈತರು ನೀಡಿರುವ ದೂರಿನನ್ವಯ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಿ ವರದಿ
ನೀಡುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ:- 1. ತಮ್ಮ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಜಕ್ಕನಿ/ಚಿ/ಬೆಳೆವಿಮೆ;ತನಿಪೆ/2023-24 ದಿ: 12-07-2023
2, ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರ್‌ರವರು ಹಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ:ಜೆ.ವಿ/ಪಿ.ಮ/ಪಾ.ವ್ಯ/2023-24
Q: 18-07-2023
a meee
ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡ ವಿಷಯ ಹಾಗೂ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖದನ್ವಯ wysd ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕಿನ ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ ಹೋಬಳಿಯ
೬7 ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಮರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿಯ ಹಳ್ಳಿಗಳಲ್ಲಿ 2022-23 ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಧಾನ ಮಂತ್ರಿ ಫಸಲ್‌
ಭಿಮಾ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ನೀಡಿರುವ ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಸ್ಥಳ ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆ ಮಾಡಿ ವರದಿ ನೀಡಲು
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-2 ರ ಪತ್ರದಲ್ಲಿ ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರರು ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರು ತನಿಖಾ ತಂಡ ರಚನೆ ಆದೇಶ ನೀಡಿದ್ದು, ಅದರಂತೆ
ದಿನಾಂಕ 28-07-2023 ಕ ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮಕ್ಕೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡ ನಂತರ ಸತತ 5 ದಿನಗಳವರೆಗೆ
ಜಮೀನುಗಳಿಗೆ ಭೇಟಿ ನೇಡಿ ಹಾಗೂ ವಿಮೆ ನೋಂದಣಿದಾರರು. ಮತ್ತು ಜಮೀನಿನ ಮಾಲೀಕರೊಂದಿಗೆ
ಹೋಲಿಸಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲನೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಕಂಡು ಬಂದ ಅಂಶಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ ಫಲಾನುಭವಿವಾರು ವಿವರಗಳನ್ನು ಈ
ಪತ್ರದೊಂದಿಗೆ ಲಗತ್ತಿಸಿ ತಮ್ಮ ಅವಗಾಹನೆಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ ಮುಂದಿನ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
: ಧನ್ಯವಾದಗಳೊಂದಿಗೆ.
| ತಮ್ಮ ನಂಬುಗೆಯ
. ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ಹೆ
ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ.
ಕಃ
Scanned with OKEN ಅಡ:

--- Page 221 ---
'
/ ೨1೧ ca
36s. uous qs ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರ ಕಛೇರಿ @ pre 1
= ig ರ್‌. ರಸ್ತ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-577861 ಸ್‌ ತ್‌
2 ಸಃ ಸರ್ಕಾರ ಆನ ಪ ಇತ್ತ ga ane
~ ಜೂರವಾಣಿ;08194-222406 Email: ೯031೦0, 0-80 7
SS eee ತ ಲಂ ಎಂ ಎ Famke 11-08-2023
FRAT RORG LISS ಎ ಯಾ
ನ ಕಾರಣ ಕೇಳಿ ನೋಟೀಸ್‌ =
ಸ ರುವ
fb ವಿಷಯ: ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರ ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ರಚಿಸಲಾದ ತನಿಖಾ ಸಮಿತಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿ:
ವರದಿಯಲ್ಲಿರುವ ನ್ಯೂನತೆಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಮಜಾಯಿತಿ ನೀಡುವ ಕುರಿತು,
7 ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ; 1. ದಿ: 2306/2023ರಂದು ನಡೆದ ಕೆಡಿಪಿ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ. .
Es 2, ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: ಗ್ರಾಲಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ:3/ಆರ್‌-11/2023-24.
ದಃ 2706/2023.
3. ದಿನಾಂಕ: 1107,2023ರಂದು ಮಾನ್ಯ ಅಪರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರ. ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದೆ
‘ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಜರ್ಜಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
1. ದಿನಾಂಕ: 3107:2023ರಂದು ನಡೆದ NCORD ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು. ಸೂಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
5, ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು. ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: 'ಸಕೃವಿ/ಚ/ಹಿ.ಮ/ಪ್ರಫ.ಜಿ.ಯೋ/022-23,
೦ 08082023
ಎತ
ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡ ವಿಷಯ ಹಾಗೂ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆಯ. ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು, ಪಿ. ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಗ್ರಾಮ
ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ: ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ, 2022-23ನೇ ಸಾಲಿನ ಮುಂಗಾರು ಹಂಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ. ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರಗಳು.
ನಡೆದಿವೆ. ಎಂದು. ರೈತರು ದೂರರುವ ಪ್ರಯುಕ್ತ ಬೆಳೆ ಎಮು. ಪರಿಹಾರ ಎತರಣೆಯಾಗಿರುವ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಕೂಲಂಕುರವಾಗಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಿ.
| ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಕೃಷಿ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿ ಪರಶುರಾಂಘರ, ಪಿ.ಎಸ್‌.ಐ. ಪರಶುರಾಂಪರ, ಉಪ ತಹಶೀಲ್ದಾರರು ಪರಶುರಾಂಪರ,
ರಾಜಸ್ವ ನಿರೀಕ್ಷಕರು ಪರಶುರಾಂಪುರ, ಗ್ರಾಮ ಲೆಕ್ಕಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಪರಶುರಾಂಘುರ, ಗ್ರಾಮ ಆಿಕ್ಕಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಮಹದೇವಪುರ ಹಾಗೂ ಗ್ರಾಮ
ತ ಿಕ್ಕಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು ಪಗಡಲಬಂಡೆ ಇವರುಗಳನ್ನು ಒಳಗೊಂಡ ಸಮಿತಿಯು ಕ್ಷೀತ್ರ ಭೇಟಿ ನೀಡಿ ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವ ವರದಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಈ
90ನಂತೆ ನ್ಯೂನತೆಗಳಿದ್ದು ಇದಕ್ಕೆ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಸಮಜಾಯಿಶಿಯನ್ನು ಈ ಪತ್ರ ತಲುಪಿದ ಮೂರು ದಿನಗಳೊಳಗಾಗಿ ಈ ಕಛೇರಿಗೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲು
ತೆ ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ. ತಪ್ಪಿದ್ದ ತಮ್ಮ ಹೇಳಿಕೆಯು ಏನೂ ಇರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ ಎಂದು ಭಾವಿಸಿ ಮುಂದಿನ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲಾಗುವುದು.
ಸ್ಥಳ ನಿರ್ದಿಷ್ಠ ಜಾ a |
ನೊಂದ | ೫ ಕೊಯ್ಲೋತ್ತರ ಸಾಸ್‌ ಪ್ಲಾಷ್‌
= ವಿಮಾ ಒಂದಕ್ಕಿಂತ
a lee ಹಾ ಹ dea ets ನೊಂದಣಿ | REO soaks | ನಿಯಮಾನುಸಾರ |
Ed ಅರ್ಜಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸದ. re ರೈತರ zo, ce | ಪರಿಹಾರ ಘಣ Sot’ | eternace:
ರೈತರ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ bene S| ಪಾವತಿಯಾದ | Ein | sare
ಇಲ್ಲದ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು. ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು | ಪ್ರದಣಗಳು |
ಈ ಮೇಲ್ಭಾಣಿಸಿದ ಕೋಷ್ಠಕದಲ್ಲಿರುವಂತೆ ನ್ಯೂನತೆ ಇರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳ ವರದಿಯ ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು ಈ ಪತ್ರದೊಂದಿಗೆ ಲಗತ್ತಿಸಿದ್ದು
ಸದರಿ ಪಟ್ಟಿಯಲ್ಲಿರುವಂತೆ ನ್ಯೂನತೆಗಳಿಗೆ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಸಮಜಾಯಿಶಿಯನ್ನು ನೀಡಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ. ಜು
ಇವರಿಗೆ.
ಟೆ ರಾಜ್ಯ ಪ್ರತಿನಿಧಿ, =4
ಯುನಿವರ್ಸಲ್‌ ಸೋಂಹೋ ಜನರಲ್‌ ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿ, ತ ಡೆ
ಟಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ae \
~ ಜಂಟಿ ಜಿ we ;
|
= ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು, 1. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರಮರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಆಪ್ತ ಸಹಾಯಕ ಮೂಲಕ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
2, ಮಾನ್ಶ ಅಪರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
3. ಉಪ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು-2 ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಹಾಗೂ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ನೀಡಿದೆ.
4. ಸಹಾಯೆಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು ಜಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಅಗತ್ಯ ಕ್ರಮಕ್ಕಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
ಹಾ ಪಾ ಕಾಜ
(8 scanned with 041 ಚ

--- Page 222 ---
+ Universal Sompo.
ತ ಪ್ರಿತಿ
ರಾ Sad
Date: 22-08-2023 ತ್‌ Ref: USGI/PMFBY/2023-24/171
To,
Joint Director of Agriculture
Department of Agriculture,
Chitradurga-577501.
Subject: - Replay letter Regarding condoning the deficiencies in the report submitted by the inquiry committee
constituted under the chairmanship of Assistant Director of Agriculture, Challakere.
Reference:
ಹ 1, The: As discussed In the KDP meeting held on 23.06.2023, ij
2. Hon'ble Collector, Chitradurga’ s letter No: Grale. Staff: CR-1/2023-24, Q: 27.06.2023.
3. Dated: 11.07.2023 as discussed in the meeting presided over by Hon'ble Additional Collector, Chitradurga.
4, Dated: 31.07.2023 as indicated by the Hon'ble District Collector in the NCORD meeting.
5. Assistant Director of Agriculture, Challakere letter No: Sakkani/Ch/P.M.F.B.¥/2022-23, : 08.08.2023
6. Notice asking for reason SI: IDA/CTA/Date/KR-PMFBY/Crop Insurance/2023-24.
Greetings from Universal Sompo GIC Ltd.!
Respected Sir,
|. We are pleased to provide a response regarding the aforementioned issue and references. In the context of
“|” Chitradurga District, Challakere Taluk, specifically within P Mahadevapura Village Panchayat during the Kharif season of
| 2022-23, there have been reported irregularities in the distribution of crop insurance compensation, Farmers have raised
concerns about the accuracy of the compensation distribution list.
‘Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Regard § ಕೋ Sa, SADC Ceres one Guta Nigar, Ane (Mn AON. Menara
ಯಯ ಯು ಯು Page
ಯ ಯ ಯು 1

--- Page 223 ---
Q 2
(
ಕು 0೬121507100 ಇ

To investigate this matter, a team consisting of the Assistant Director of Agriculture for Challakere Taluk, the
Agriculture Officer, the Police Sub-Inspector, the Sub-Tehsildar Rajswa Inspector, and the Village Accountants of | -
Parashurampur, Mahadevpur, and Pagadalabande conducted a field visit and subsequently submitted a report to the Joint
Director of Agriculture.

Concerning this issue, we wish to draw your attention to the comprehensive analysis report submitted by USGIC in
response 10 your esteemed office's letter with Serial Number: St JDACTA/Date/KR-PMFBY/Crop Insurance/2023-24,
requesting an explanation. We look forward to resolving this matter expeditiously,

‘We Woilld like to emphasize {hal the Rarhataka State Agriculture ೮5737811 has undertaken a pioneering initiative
in the digitization of various processes, including the management of land records, enrollment in the KR-PMFBY program
through the Samrakshane platform, and the comprehensive crop survey conducted for each individual farmer's cultivated
plots. It is worth noting that this system was introduced for the first time in the country, setting a significant milestone in
Karnataka's agricultural landscape,

‘

‘The credit for this remarkable achievement goes to the Government of Karnataka, which has diligently captured and
made accessible all the pertinent data to various stakeholders in a systematic manner. This data has been officially
recognized and verified as complete and accurate by the state government. Vou can access this valuable information
through the official websites: https://cropsurvey.karnataka.gov.in and https://samrakshane karnataka,gov.in,

| Utilizing the verified data validated by the State Government, the entire state of Karnataka has consistently
adhered to established procedures for the settlement and enrollment validation process. This practice has been diligently
upheld for several years, In line with these efforts, we have submitted both Government of India and the Government of
Karnataka official orders that outline the specific exemptions and guidelines related to crop surveys. These documents
serve 85 a point of reference for our case.

To ensure full compliance with the PMFBY guidelines, we have provided relevant sections from the recently revised | _
PMFBY guidelines for your thorough review. These sections offer detailed guidance on farmer coverage, enrollment
prerequisites, 3116 the 11010811811 of intermediaries ih the 81761781 process, With a 30808510005 On KR-PMFBY, tenant |
farmers, and crop survey exemptions.

Universal Sompo General insurance Co. Li. .
‘ates cet ಯಯುಯಿ ಬ ಯಯ ಯೂ PARE
ಅ ಯು ಯುುಯುಯು ; 2

--- Page 224 ---
ರ್ಣ ಜಡ
“ತ
ಕ onze
Proceedings of Karnataka Govt:- On consideration of crop insurance proposals for different seasons of Sane Kal
compared with the crop survey report.
4 Read:
1. Government Order No:kruna 0:08.11.2019. 77 of 2019,
2. Government Order No:Krna 34 8102113 2019 and 872 34 Kaka 2019(1) and DD0:05.07.2019. 34 of 2019(2),
3. Government Order No: 83 of 2020, 00:07.08.2020,
4. Central Government letter No:13012/04/2017-Credit-MI(Pt}, 00:14.08.2020 11.09.2020.
5. Government Order No: AGRI-AAE/43/2021, Bangalore DOI:08.04.2021.
6, Proceedings of State Level Crop insurance Coordinating Committee Meeting (510001) held on:06.022023.
7.COMMISSIONER AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENT'S LETTER NO AKKANI(BEV)/PMFBY/MUN2023/ NOTIFICATION/
1/2023-
ಸ
In the light of the points explained in the proposal, the proposals are compared with the crop survey report and
allowed to be considered, continuing the Government orders (1) and (5) read above and adding the following principles
ahd Methods (7 118 58/8 orders, applicable Only Tor pre-TONsON, 11075807, Winter ahd SuMMer 8835075 OF the Year 2020-
21. The crop survey report has been ordered by the PMFBY to allow crop adjustment for crop insurance claims registered
under the crop insurance scheme.
1, The recommendations of the survey numbers found in the crop survey report as fallow area shall be treated as
completely valid,
2. Adjusting only the crop yield which does not consider the cultivated area (the area is not an accurate measurement
35 reported on sight. Moreover, the conservation software is integrated with the land (land data so that the insured area
"| isnot greater than the area reported on the land,),
ಕ 3. In case of crop insurance proposals having more than one share number in a survey number, if the crop registered
ತ for insurance in at least one share matches the crop found in the crop survey report, such proposals shall be considered
೩5 fully valid. While granting such exemption, itis ensured that the insured crop is present at the time of crop survey if the
number of insured shares is more than or equal to number of shares.
Universal Sempo General insurance Co. Lid.
CEE ne eee a en Page
‘eg ಯ ಯಯ 3

--- Page 225 ---
or >
ಜು Universal Sompo ‘
ಗ್ರೀಕ
ದ ಸಮ are tote aa
4. Exemption from non-survey of crops in any one survey number provided the crop in such survey numbers is insured.
5. in case of non-availability of computerized village map of any village not used for crop survey, it is nat possible to !
compare the crop insured with the crop survey report, in which case all proposals of such villages shall be treated as fully
valid.
6. In the crop survey, where one part is “non-cultivable land" and the rest of the crop is grown in such claims, such claims
shall be treated as valid if they fall under any of the exceptions.
7. Type of irrigation (rain-fed or irrigated) when comparing the wet and irrigated crops in the crop survey report.
8. Prevented Sowing is the insurance unit and the crop is not sown, and there are no chances of sowing the insured crap.
Moreover, insurance is settled before the sowing season for such proposals.
9. Adversity/Disadvantages” (vide SOsson Adversity b) considered for crop insurance coverage, such proposals should be .
considered as not compared with crop survey information.
‘
10. In order No. 09, as an exemption is given to the items which have experienced/are experiencing intermediate adverse
effects, local calamity (Localized calamity) and post-harvest loss (Post harvest Loss) proposals shail also be exempted.
11. Scrutiny of non-exemption receipts without timing with crop survey, cases of farmers who have received loan should
be verified by concerned bank branches and cases of farmers who have not received loan by Taluk Agriculture Officers for
agricultural crops and Taluk Horticultural Officers for horticultural crops.
12. inspecting Officers will check the crop survey details and photograph, and if the crop insured is found in the
photograph, recommend to the insurance company to accept such proposals as valid and if the crop survey photograph
does not show the crop and the crop insured is a seasonal crop, recommend rejection and 11 the insured crop 15 3 multi-
. year crop, cHeck the 0/80 through Mobile App and If the Insurante crop 15 grown, reepritriend to consider It as Sindu, If
not, recommend to reject it.
Univeral Sompo General nsurance Co. Lt
Regard & Cops Once et 1 ರ Cnt et, Gn gi An ei A. Marti
Tet: 022 41659600 / 41659H00 1 Tc Free ಪೂ wrwer ು.ರ್ಮ್ಸಲ್ಟ ್ಟ ್ಟ್ಟಉ್ಲ[ Page
ಜುಜೆ ಗೆ

--- Page 226 ---
ರ್ಶ 92-4
. ಜು Universal Sompo
ಡಿ
3. Coverage of Farmers:
3.1 All farmers including sharecroppers and tenant farmers growing the notified crops in the notified areas are eligible
«| for coverage. However, farmers should have insurable interest for the insured crops and lands, Such farmers are required
to submit necessary documentary evidence of land records prevailing in the State (Records of Right (RoR), Land Possession
Certificate (LPC) etc.) and/or applicable contract/ agreement details/ other documents notified/ permitted by concerned
State Government in case of sharecroppers/tenant farmers and the same should be defined by the respective States in
| the notification itself. Such farmers are also required to essentially submit Aadhaar Number and declaration about the
| crop sown/ crops intended to be sown.

17.6.7 While accepting the Proposal and the premium from aforesaid designated agents, other authorized channel
partner or insurance intermediaries approved by IRDAI, it shall be the responsibility of IC or its designated agents to verify

| insurable interest and collect the land records, Aadhaar Number, particulars of acreage, sum insured, crop sown etc. and
applicable contract/agreement details in case of sharecroppers/tenant farmers. The designated intermediaries shall enter
ಹ the data of farmers on web- portal, remit the premium with consolidated proposals within 2 days. However, itis mandatory
| that the non-loanee farmers serviced by the designated intermediaries should hold @ bank account and Aadhaar Number
or Aadhaar Enrolment Number in order to get insured and the designated intermediaries will also facilitate remittance of

the claim, if payable.

27.2.1 Common Service Centres, Banking Correspondents shall be paid service charges by ICs, as decided by Gol
against the successful submission of each farmer application form by them. This includes charges for submission of
electronic data of farmers along with uploading of the copy of Land Possession Certificate (LPC)/Land records/ /contract
document ar any other document defined by the concerned State Government to identify share-cropper/tenant farmer,
self-declaration of the intent to sow the proposed crop ar sown crop/sowing certificate as notified by the State, Bank
Passbook up to 5 pages and printout of one page of the premium acknowledgement receipt.

35.102 Applicants must sign/authorize electronically (along with copy of Aadhaar Card/Aadhaer enrolment 10 (if

1... seeding/ekYC has not been completed) along with the copy of LPC/Land Records/contract document or any other
5 document defined by the concerned State Government to identify share-cropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self-
declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop and copy of Pass Book to the Bank/Intermediary.
ಖೆ ‘Universal 507100 General insurance Co. Lid.
ಇರರಯಯೊಸಬೆಚುೆದಯು ಯ್‌ — PAGE
ಎಂ ಯು ಯು ಯು 5
|

--- Page 227 ---
| KS
| ae
ಚ
[ಗ ©
ತ ome:

35,10.3 All non-loanee farmers willing to enrol through CSCs are compulsorily required to submit mobile phone
numbers and Aadhaar numbers. They must authenticate themselves through Aadhaar enabled e-KYC for enrolment under
crop insurance before the prescribed cut-off date along with the copy of LPC/Land Records/contract document or any
other document defined by the concerned State Government to identify share-cropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate
or self-declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop, and the copy of Pass Book.

35.10.5 non-loanee farmers being covered through other than online channels of CSC and direct through NCIP etc,
shall submit the duly filled proposal/application form along with a copy of Aadhaar Card, Bank Passbook, Land Ownership
proof /contract document or any other document defined by the concerned State Government to identify
sharecropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self-declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop_
SaaS EE RSP SORA RSS ns OFAC CN fer Ea
[othe ks ಗ ಅಚಲ ೬ಒ[ ಗರ ಆ So
ಬು ಹಸ [13053813 ಓಕ ಬ ಟ್ಟ Sl
pt me fo» |e |e | | [ಒಬ]
There have been 1,047 farmer enrollments, with 19 intimation cases received for localized issues and 142 for post-harvest
matters. In total, there are 70 reported cases of deficiencies related to the registration of fallow land and crop mismatch,
32 cases where compensation was paid more than once, and 10 cases of landowner mismatch.

This report demonstrates our diligent adherence to the procedures outlined in KR-PMFBY, Crop Survey guidelines, and
the instructions provided for insured farmers. It also outlines our guidance for conducting assessments in the field."

Universal 508700 General insurance Co. Lid. rs
ಜಸ ರ A ca ರ್ಮ

ಗಭ ಲು ಇಲ Page

ಜರ ಬಾಬಿ ಕ!

--- Page 228 ---
|
924
Insurance
ಕ್ಲ =
| ರ insured under registration of fallow land and cases of crop mismatch Deficiencies as reported”.
1 accordance with the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team carried out a
| loss assessment. However, the Insurance Company (IC) has specific concerns about verifying the
actual sowing activities through Bele Darshak during future surveys.
| In accordance with the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team carried out a
Joss assessment. However, the Insurance Company (IC} has specific concerns about verifying the
‘actual sowing activities through Bele Darshak during future surveys. His one joint Owner of this
tand, and his name matches with proposal name.
* The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of erop survey guideline: ie, File No. AGRI-AAE/42/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and
y PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. Attached are details Crop available.
|
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
“| |g | the 60 of crop survey guideline. ie., File No. AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. attached details. He is the jaint owner
of this land he is eligible for enrolment.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the 60 of crop survey guideline. ic, File No. AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and a
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. payment and area cover attached
details.
ಕ್‌ Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. ಓರ. ತ
ರ Capote Once io 12, Yt Foot, Ac Sx, MIC Catt ೌೌರ ್ಸ್ಸ್ಸ್ಸ್‌
ಬರಗು ಯಯ ಬು 0 ಔೃ
ಯಯ EATON ROA! Regd No 134 7
|
|

--- Page 229 ---
grr
Universal Sompo
a ಡಿಜಿ
ವಾಪಾಸ
Cases where compensation is paid more than once.
During the previous data submission, the survey with its number was not mentioned, as per Bhoomi records. However,
it has now been verified, and detailed information has been provided in the table below.
Duplicate entry attached area to cover and payment details |
| 2. | The corrected payment details have attached. ಜಾಸ್‌)
3 Hiss Number has changed in the previous abstract corrected hiss number is 100*6 and Corrected
> | payment details have attached.
‘1 _| liiss Number has changed in the previous abstract corrected hiss number is 121°13 Corrected
payment details have attached.
5 Hiss Number has changed In the previous abstract corrected hiss number is 121*14 Corrected
| payment details have attached, =
In accordance with the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team carried out a
6 | 1055 assessment. However, the Insurance Company (IC) has specific concerns about verifying the s
actual sowing activities through Bele Darshak during future surveys
In accordance with the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team carried out 2
7 1055 assessment. However, the Insurance Company {IC) has specific concerns about verifying the
actual sowing activities through Bele Darshak during future surveys. Hiss Number has changed in
the previous abstract corrected hiss number is 84*2AP2.
| 8 | Payment area cover details attached ಹಾ
The Crop Survey shaws Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. Le., File No. AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and ಠಃ
| PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023 and payment area cover details
attached.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No. AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and ಸೆ
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number 15 160*38 and payment details attached.
Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd. ಇ
ಜಾ 8 Cuperme Once: Unt Mo 18, Fou, Aci ್ಸ ಕಹತ ಕಕ್ಕ್ಸ್ಹರ್ಸ್ಕ್ಸ್ಕ
ಬಗಲ Ta Free No ಯಯ Wee wow ಬ ಜ್ಯ
ಅರು ಯ ROA ge Ma 138 8

--- Page 230 ---
ತ ೆ ೦2.8
eh Universal sompo
ಛಿ
Fi The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
13. the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28,04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed in the
4 previous abstract corrected hiss number is 185*S attached payment and area cover details.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet,
12 the GO of crop survey guideline. Le., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 4
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number Is 196**
The Crap Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities atso meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. .e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
| PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 47*2 (attached payment details)
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
೪ the GO of crop survey guideline. Le, File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMFBY/Kharil/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed in the
BEViOUS abstract Corrected hiss huMBEr is 8756 (Attached payment derails)
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. j.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMEBY/Khafit/2023/Notification /1/2023- 24, 0:28,04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed i the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 47*7 (Attached payment details)
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
4 the GO of crop survey guideline. |. ., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and a
| PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, and Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 47*8 ( Attached payment details)
= ‘Universal Sompo General insurance Co. Ltd
ಬ & Carers te nt hs 3 Pr Ao x OC Creo, Gum gwen) Mure 0099 Mehr.
ಜಯ ಯಯ ಟ್‌ PAE
ಬು ಜು ಯು 4

--- Page 231 ---
ಕ] Universal Se =
ಹಜಜ
a Te Fae nar ta
‘The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
37 the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 133748. Payment area cover details are attached.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 133*4C. Payment area cover details are attached.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No-AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 1
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, Hiss Number has changed in the ತ
0180808 306030 Corrected Hiss ೧0/7081 IS 154° 11. PAYMENT 3183 ₹0081 Details are ೫೩೯೫80,
| 2
‘The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
20 the GO of crop survey guideline. ie., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and 4
PMFBY/Kharit/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023, Hiss Number has changed in the
previous abstract corrected hiss number is 154*3P Payment area cover details attached,
‘The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE,
and attached area cover with payment details.
|
35.10,9-35.10.9 non-loanee farmers being covered through ather than online channels of CSC and direct through NCIP
etc, shall submit the duly filled proposal/application form along with a copy of Aadhaar Card, Bank Passbook, Land
Ownership proof /contract document or any other document defined by the concerned State Government to identify
sharecropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self-declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop.
Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. Ltd =
ಹಾ Oe: Unt No WS. i Hox, Ari! St, SADC Gere ans, tam Moar, Aon () Mb OOO Mahara
a G72 41620800 ಯಯ 1ಟ.|[`
ಬಂ ಯು ಯುಯು 10

--- Page 232 ---
; ಕ ೨.೨30
ಶೌ ೩ Universal Sompo
ಗ gaze
ಪ ed
1__| Heis the joint owner of this land he is eligible far enrolment as per PMFBY guidelines. ಪರ ಗತ್ರಾತ
‘Mr, Maruthiis the joint owner of this land. As per PMEBY guidelines, he is eligible for get
ಇ | enrolment, and in accordance with the instructions pravided by the farmers, the field survey team
| carried out a loss assessment. However, the Insurance Company (IC) has specific concerns about
verifying the actual sowing activities through Bele Oharshaka during future surveys.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline, i., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_-AGRICULTURE and
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023 and Landowner No Objection Letter
235 been submitted (35.10.3)
x The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN, B-AGRICULTURE and
PMEBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. Mr. Arathi has taken 3 no-abjection
‘ | letter from the landowner (All the related documents attached).
8 ‘The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGR\_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and
PMEFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. Mr.Ninganna has no objection letter
from the landowner as per the GO it is acceptable (35.10.3)
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
6 | the GO of crop survey guideline. i.e., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and
PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28,04.2023. Ms Mamatha GM is her own
daughter (Lakshmmam).
‘The Crop Survey shows Groundnut craps in the field and approved by Govt authorities also meet
7 | the GO of crop survey guideline. ie., File No.AGRI-AAE/43/2021-AGRI_PLAN_B-AGRICULTURE and
= PMFBY/Kharif/2023/Notification/1/2023- 24, 0:28.04.2023. attached are details, and the
Landowner No Objection Letter has been submitted (35.10.3}
4 Universs! Sempo General Insurance Co. Ltd
1 Crp Ce: Unt No 13.1 Fw, Ac St, ANOC ೮೫೦ Ra, ರೊ. ಟರ 00093274722.
Tee 022 ¢¥:e800/ 416000 TaPee No 1800Z:409Y ಟು ) ಯು 6
ಯು AY Rg ಜು 13.

--- Page 233 ---
Universal Sompo. *
a ಹಾಂ
‘Summarization:

= During the previous data submission, the survey with its number was not mentioned, as per Bhoom! records.
However, it has now been verified, and detailed information has been provided.

ಎ... farmers covered through non-online channels must submit a filled proposal/applicetion form with
supporting documents. These documents include Aadhaar Card, Bank Passbook, Land Ownership
proof/contract document, or any other document specified by the State Government for identification. The
purpose is to identify sharecroppers, tenant farmers, or individuals intending to cultivate the propased crop.

‘© Individual farmer-wise intimation is a pre-condition to getting benefits for the localized claim and post-harvest
(06-21.5.8.2).

ಇ We received the intimations from farmers individually through the Bot system (Helpline: 1800-200-5142 and `
‘Weblink -https://login.universalsompo.in/crop_claim_website/}, and loss assessment took place as per the

‘
PMFBY guidelines.
+ Further, there is no such preventive sowing or midseason adversity invoked in the IU or taluk’s in Chitradurga.
+ No shortfall occurred in the major crops Groundnut (RF) as per Crop cutting experiments carried out during
| the season.

* Claims have been paid directly to beneficiary Direct Benefit Transfer (೧87) Aadhaarelinked bank accounts of
the end beneficiaries, and the payment has to be processed through the Samrakshane portal. Aadhar can’t be
edited once you enter the details during enrolment.

‘© As per PMEBY OG, IM can’t be considered fer further claims er compensation in add-an coverages or GCE-
generated claims.

This analysis report focuses on the verification findings related to crop cutting, localized, and post-harvest losses under
the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) in Chitradurga, specifically in the Challakere taluk. district P Mahadevapura .
‘Universal 507100 General insurance Co, Lid. ಜಿ
ಬ್‌ Unt No 10,131 Hom, ct Ska, MEX: Cer Ro. Gon Nagar Anca ರವ
ಜಗು ಮು ಸ್ಟೆ
ine ಯಯ ಯಯ ಯು 12

--- Page 234 ---
Be ಕೂ
> b Universal Sompo
fh ಗಗ] @
Grama Panchayat The report is based on the verification process carried out in line with the instructions from the
>| esteemed office letter dated 01-08-2023.
. After carefully examining the documents mentioned above, it was evident that there have been no instances
where the settiement of claims has deviated from the prescribed guidelines. |
If you require further information or assistance, we remain at your disposal for further discussions or clarifications.
We are looking forward to your continuous patronage.
Yours Faithfully
2 Authorized Signatory for Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd.
: or Qa
= ‘Copies for more information
= Universal Sompo General insurance Co Ltd
Br ೫01೯1೯ಊ-೫₹€«-ಈ ಅಹ್‌
10. 022 41600800 / 41559000 | Toll Free 14..1800724230/ 18007204030 | Webel. 99% 13407 ಹೇ ೮೫೪0/38, (೬19೪೮ SIERO COM Page

--- Page 235 ---
1
i Prn- N
| REN 932d
| i ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರ
ಹ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲೆ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ.
ಸ್ಸ ಸಿ೦೫ ಲೆ ಭಗಿ:6ಆರ್‌-1/0)7-21 Omotis-9-2023 |
ಲಂಗ
ATA ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರು,
ಸ ಕೃಷಿ CORED ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ,
ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು:
ಮಾನ್ಯರೇ,
. ನ್ಯ
Reed: 2022-23 ಫೇ ಸಾಲಿನ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿ ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು.
ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಪುರ/ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯಿತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ಗ್ರಾಮಗಳಲ್ಲಿ'
ಪಾವತಿಯಾಗಿರುವುದರಲ್ಲಿ ವ್ಯತ್ಯಾಸವಾಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ತನಿಖಾ ವರದಿ
ಕುರತು,
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ: 1) ದಿನಾಂಕ:23-06-2023ರಂಡು. ನಡೆದ ಕೆ.ಡಿ.ಪಿ. ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ
ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
| ಕ 2) ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರದ ಸಮಸಂಖ್ಯೆ ದಿನಾಂಕ:2-06-2023
lig ದ್ದೆ \ 3) ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗಇವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ; ಜಕ್ಕನಿ/ ಚಿ/
* 12 ತಾಂ-1/ ಜಿ.ವಿ/ತ.ವ/2023-24, ದಿನಾ೦ಕ:0109.2023 ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ. :
agg eh "Beg ೦ಿಸ06/5,09,2023)
seen
ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ಉಸ್ತುವಾರಿ ಸಚಿವರು ಹಾಗೂ ಯೋಜನೆ ಮತ್ತು mons ಸಚಿವರು ಇವರ
= ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ದಿನಾಂ5:23,06,2023 ರಂದು ನಡೆದ ಕೆ.ಡಿ.ಪಿ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾ ವಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ
ಸರ್ಕಾರದಿಂದ ರೈತರಿಗೆ ನೀಡಲಾಗಿರುವ ಬೆಳೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ನಿಧಿ ಮತ್ತು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಪರಿಹಾರದಲ್ಲಿ ಅವ್ಯವಹಾರ
ಲ ನಡೆದಿರುವ ಕುರಿತು ವಿಪರವಾದ gas ನಡೆಸಿ ಕ್ರಮ ವಹಿಸುವಂತೆ. ಸೂಚಿಸಲಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಅದರಂತೆ:
` ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-2 ರ. ಪತ್ರದಂತೆ ದಿನಾಂಕ:27.06.2023 ರಂದು ಈ ಕೆಳಗಿನಂತೆ ತನಿಖಾ ಶಂಡ ರಚಿಸಿ 15
: ದಿನಗಳೊಳಗಾಗಿ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸುವಂತೆ ಆರೇಜಿಸಲಾಗಿತ್ತು. ಹ್‌
Pr rsa ತಾ er oe ಪರಕರ]
ji ಸದರಿ ತಂಡದವರು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-3 dod ಸದರಿ ವರದಿಯಲ್ಲಿರುವ
ಅಂಶಗಳು ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯಿಂದ ಈ ಹ ote typoasons tors
ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ ಎಂದು ತಮ್ಮ ವರದಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರಸ್ರಾಪಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. =
1) ಸ್ಥಳ ನಿರ್ಧಿಷ್ಟ ವಿಕೋಪ ಹಾಗೂ GY ಕಟಾವು ನಂತರ AHA ವಿಕೋಪಗಳಿಂದಾಗಿವ ae
ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ene ನಡೆಸುವಾಗ _ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಸರ್ಕಾರದ ಆದೇಶ. ಸಂ/ ಕೃತ
ಕೃತ್ಯೆಉ/56/2022(1), ದಿ: 07.05.2022 ರ ಅಧಿಸೂಚನೆಯಲ್ಲಿರುವಂತೆ ಕೃಷಿ ತೋಟಗಾರಿಕ,
1 ಕಂದಾಯ ಇಲಾಖೆಯ ಅಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಜೊತ್ತಯಲ್ಲಿ aa ಸಮಿಕ್ಷೆ ನಡೆಸದೇ ವಿಕಪಸ್ಷೀಯವಾಗಿ, ಆ
2) ಬೀಳು ಭೂಮಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ ನೊಂದಾಯಿತ ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೆ wed ಬೆಳೆ: ಬೆಳೆದು. ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ
z ಪಡೆದ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಒಟ್ಟು ರೂ.6734104/- sto ದುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
3) ಖಾತೆದಾರರ ಬದಲಿಗೆ ಬೇರೊಬ್ಬರು ನೊಂದಣಿ. ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುವ ಮತ್ತು ಬೀಳು: ಭೂಮಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ
3 ನೊಂದಾಯಿತ ಚೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೇ ಬೇರೆ ಜಿಳೆ.ದೆಳೆದು ವಿಮಾ domed ಪಡದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ
ಒಟ್ಟು ರೂ, 1384598/- ಹಣ ದುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ.
4) ಖಾತೆದಾರರ ಬದಲಿಗೆ ಬೇರೊಬ್ಬರು. ನೊಂದಣಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿ ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಪಡೆದಿರುವ
ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ರೂ.190600/- ಹಣ ಡುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುತ್ತದೆ. ಅದರಂತೆ ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿ
ಉಲ್ಲಂಘನೆಯಾದ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು ಈ ಕೆಳಕಂಡಂಕಿವೆ. ಗ
=
[
CE Scanned with OKEN scape
ಸಸಂ 8 ಯತಿ ತೆ =

--- Page 236 ---
| i
-2- ಛಿ
a ge”
ಪ್ರಕರಣದ ವಿನರಗಳು. ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳ ನೋಂದಾವಣಿ ಸಂಖ್ಯೆ ಜಾ ಕ್ಕಿ
ಸಂಖ್ಯ F .
=, ನಾ F916, 379606, ಗಾರ್ಗ್‌
setae = 2384438, 2377781, 1407337,
ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೇ ಬೇರೆ. ಬೆಳೆ. 1407433, 1939594, 2025673,
ಬೆಳೆದು. ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ 2331659, 233116, 2331979,
ಪಡದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು. 2331145, 2077943, 1965037,
1081073, 1578053, 1968237,
2413944, 108373, 1577063, 830532,
2987891, 1973854, 2388159,
2041195, 1967912, 138361, 391115,
391544, 2079336, 2253466,
2254987, 2254314, 642993,
1969510, 1975581, 1975581, 1975581,
975581. 299432, 2199055, |"6734804
604635, 1556800, 2077366, i
1407698, 1602526, 1603177,
1231234, 184575, 1909456,
: 1964553, 1493019, 750156,
1786084, 1556575, 1974885
2335452, 1449163, 2252725,
2115415, 2115415, 21/5415, 2115415, |“
‘ 1156763, 1156395, 1377943, 808767,
1081516, 1082108, 2388518, 160753,
160753, 2093999, 1545776,
q 2126434, 2126434, 2103981,
| 2103254 ಕೆ
ಹಾಡ್‌ DOr
ಬೇರೊಬ್ಬರು. ನೊಂದಣಿ
ಮಾಡಿಸಿರುವ... ಮತ್ತು 2412676, 238919, 1977559, | ' ~
ಬೀಳು ಭೂಮಿಗೆ ಹಾಗೂ 1977850, 670580, 2410765,
ನೊಂದಾಯಿತ 2290727, 2392772, 23901, | 1384598
ಬೆಳೆಯಲ್ಲದೇ ಬೇರೆ. ಬಿಳಿ 1852909, 2377473
ಬೆಳೆದು ವಿಮಾ ಪರಿಹಾರ
ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು
| ನೊಂದಣಿ |
mide oad 2390424, 2392564 190600
ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳು. |
ಸ್ರತ ugg @) ರ ತನಿಖಾ ಶೆಂಡವು. ಮೇಲ್ಕಂಡಂತೆ ಯಾನಿರ್ಸರ್‌ ಸಾಸ
ಜನರಲ್‌ = ಇನ್ನನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿ. ಪ್ರಕಿಿದಗಳಿಂದ... ಒಟ್ಟು ರೂ.83,10,002/-.. ಹಣ :
ದುರುಪಯೋಗವಾಗಿರುವುದು. ಕಂಡುಬಂದಿರುವುದಾಗ್ಲಿ ವರದಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವುದರಿಂದ ಸದಂ. ಕಂಪನಿಯವರ.
ಯಾ ರ್ಸ್‌ .
ಪತ್ರದೊಂದಿಗೆ ಅನುಬಂಧಿಸಿ ತಮ್ಮ ಅವಗಾಹನೆಗೆ ಸಲ್ಲಸಿದೆ.
ತ ತಮ್ಮ ನಂಬುಗೆಯ,
|
| oot
1 ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು,
| ದ್ರುರ್ಗ ಜಿಲ್ಲ
GEE ಜಲ್ಲಿ
|
(೫: Scanned with OKEN Scanner

--- Page 237 ---
ಕ P
. 0 Universal Sompo
& General insurance |
ry ಾಟಿವಾಸಸುವರು.
ee
eae |
Date: 03-11-2023 Ref: USGI/PMFBY/2023-24/182
To, ey
Joint Director of Agriculture
Insurance Section,
Department of Agriculture,
Commissioners’ office, No-01, Sheshadri road,
Bangalore-01.
Subject: - Reply letter Regarding Difference in payment of Crop Insurance loss compensation in villages under P.
= Mahadevapura Gram Panchayat under Crop Insurance Kharif 2022-23.
Reference:
. 1, The: As discussed in the KDP meeting held on 23.06.2023,
2. Hon'ble Collector, Chitradurga’ s letter No: Grale. Staff: CR-1/2023-24, Q: 27.06.2023.
3. Dated: 11.07.2023 as discussed in the meeting presided over by Hon'ble Additional Collector, Chitradurga. |
4. Dated: 31.07.2023 as indicated by the Hon'ble District Collector in the NCORD meeting. |
5S. Assistant Director of Agriculture, Challakere letter No: Sakkani/Ch/P.M.F.B.Y/2022-23, : 08.08.2023.
6. Notice asking for reason 51: JDA/CTA/Date/KR-PMFBY/Crop Insurance/2023-24,
7. Personal Secretary to Hon'ble Minister of Agriculture's note No: KrisAaka/2277/2023, dated 01.09.2023.
8. JDAIC office's email letter dated 13.09,2023.
9. Collector, Chitradurga’s letter No: Gra Le:Sibbandi 2006-11/2023-24 : 15.09.2023.
೩0: Sh IDA(IC)Requests/30/2020-21/2022-23, Dated: 22-09;2023.
Greetings from Universal Sompo GIC Ltd.!
Respected Sir,
1 We are pleased to provide a response regarding the aforementioned issue and references. In the context of
Chitradurga District, Challakere Taluk, specifically within P Mahadevapura Village Panchayat during the Kharif season of
2022-23, there have been reported irregularities in the distribution of crop insurance compensation. Farmers have
~ | raised concerns about the accuracy of the compensation distribution list.
ಲಾ Lit
ಸಾರಾ ಸಾರ್ಬಾಕಫ ಗ ರ್ಟ Cent Roa, Cat ು್‌ಾೀ್‌್ಟ್‌ಾಮ«ೀಾಹ ಹ್ಕಟ_!್‌ ನ
ಗಲಗಲ ಸುರು ಯಾ ರ ಟಿ

--- Page 238 ---
ಜು Universal Sompo: “
Gai
Concerning this issue, we wish to draw your attention to the comprehensive analysis report submitted by USGIC in
response to your esteemed office's letter with Serial Number: 51: JDA/CTA/Date/KR-PMFBY/Crop insurance/2023-24,
requesting an explanation, We look forward to resolving this matter expeditiously.
We would like to emphasize that the Karnataka State Agriculture Department has undertaken 2 pioneering initiative
in the digitization of various processes, including the management of land records, enrolment in the KR-PMFBY program
through the Samrakshane platform, and the comprehensive crop survey conducted for each individual farmer's
cultivated plots. It is worth noting that this system was introduced for the first time in the country, setting a significant
milestone in Karnataka’s agricultural landscape.
The credit for this remarkable achievement goes to the Government of Karnataka, which has diligently captured and
made accessible all the pertinent data to various stakeholders in a systematic manner. This data has been officially
recognized and verified as complete and accurate by the state government. You can access this valuable information a
through the official websites: https://cropsurvey.karnataka.gov.in and https://samrakshane.karnataka.gov.in.
Utilizing the verified data validated by the State Government, the entire state of Karnataka has consistently
adhered to established procedures for the settlement and enrolment validation process. This practice has been
diligently upheld for several years. In line with these efforts, we have submitted both the Government of india and the
Government of Karnataka official orders that outline the specific exemptions and guidelines related to crop surveys.
To ensure full compliance with the PMFBY guidelines, we have provided relevant sections from the recently
revised PMFBY guidelines for your thorough review. These sections offer detailed guidance on farmer coverage,
enrollment prerequisites, and the involvement of intermediaries in the enrollment process, with 2 specific focus on KR-
PMFBY, tenant farmers, and crop survey exemptions.
in the light of the points explained in the proposal, the proposals are compared with the crop survey report and
allowed to be considered, continuing the Government orders (1) and (5) read above and adding the following principles
‘and methods to the said orders, applicable only for pre-monsoon, monsoon, winter and summer seasons of the year | ~
| 2020-21. The crop survey report has been ordered by the PMFBY to allow crop adjustment for crop insurance claims ಎ
registered under the crop insurance scheme.
Universal Sompo General insurance Co. Lt
Relea & Corse Omce Unt No 103, tet Fo, Aca St, MOC Cent Rod, Gautam Maps. Anaher(), ಖಂ
“Yet: 02410590001 1158900 | To Free No= 18002246090 1800200400 10. ೫೫9/2100 (ಆಸುರ ೭೧೧

--- Page 239 ---
ಕ
. ab) = Universal Sompo
at ರೋ
The Government of india (GO!) and the Government of Karnataka (Gok) have issued 3 set of 13 points that address
| «| Crop mismatch cases. These guidelines encompass considerations for 7111/18: (Post-Harvest Loss/Loss of Revenue)
| fntimations, involving surveys conducted by both farmers and representatives from insurance companies during that
period.
feference.
. bs ssa ef ed |
This report demonstrates our diligent adherence to the procedures outlined in KR-PMFBY, Crop Survey guidelines,
and the instructions provided for insured farmers. It also outlines our guidance for conducting assessments in the field.”
The Crop Survey has confirmed the presence of Groundnut crops in the field, and it has
received approval from Government authorities in accordance with the guidelines outlined ié
in the Grop Survey GO. During the loss assessment, the crop was available in the field, and as
ತ a result, the process for claims disbursement has been initiated.
Following the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team conducted a loss
Ale ‘assessment. However, the Insurance Company (IC) has expressed specific concerns regarding
the verification of actual sowing activities through Bele Dharshaka during future surveys, In
+ this ds, we have submitted related documents. 2
Univaeat 50790 Ganerl insurance ೦೦. Lis
ಬಜ & Carpante ce Unt 19, 15 Pat cS ARN Cent, Gn Nagi, An) Me ೂೈು Ht
2 ಯಸ ಜರಾಯು ಲ್‌ aay
|

--- Page 240 ---
|
ಲು Universal Sompo ಜಃ
ಣಿ ಛಬಿ
35,10.9-35,10.9 Non-loanee farmers being covered through other than online channels of CSC and directly through
NCIP etc., shall submit the duly filled proposal/application form along with a copy of Aadhaar Card, Bank Passbook, Land
Ownership proof /contract document or any other document defined by the concerned State Government to identify
sharecropper/tenant farmer, sowing certificate or self-declaration of intent to sow the proposed crop.
1977850 applicants, who are the landowner’s sister’s son, have also received a no-objection letter
from the landawner. And Following the instructions provided by the farmers, the field survey team| 2
conducted a loss assessment.
The Crop Survey shows Groundnut crops in the field and is approved by government authorities. It
also meets the GO of crop survey guideline 2389199. The applicant is her own 2nd daughter of the a
Landowner.
The Crop Survey has verified the presence of Groundnut crops in the field, with approval from ಇ
Government authorities as per the Crop Survey GO guidelines: During the loss assessment, the crop
was found to be present in the field. Additionally, a no-objection letter from the landowner has been ;
obtained, and all pertinent documents are attached. ೩
ಚಕಚಕ ಸರ್ಗರ್ಸಾರ್ಸಾರ್ಸ್ಸ್ಸ್‌
Summarization:
‘The field survey team conducted a loss assessment as per the instructions provided by the farmers. in this
case, the Insurance Company (IC) has raised specific concerns regarding the verification of actual sowing
activities through the Bele Dharshaka or crop survey portal during future surveys in the respective district
‘and taluks. Additionally, the farmer has obtained 2 no-objection letter from the landowners, addressing
cases where landowner names were mismatched with the proposals. All relevant documents are attached
for your reference.
+ Across all the implementing districts in Karnataka, USGIC has received approximately 2.48 lakh intimation
‘cases, with payments totaling 92 crores being processed under LR/PHL for the highest localized received | -
company over the past four seasons, Specifically, in Chitradurga, we have received over 15 thousand LR/PHL -
intimation cases throughout the district.
* During the intimation process, we submitted letters to the department inviting them to join us in conducting
Univer Sompo Genera ineurance Cat
Rego Crone Oe Unt, ta, Ach St, AOC mi Res ೧೦ ೦ ೦ Map, er ು]್ಟ್‌ುುೈರ
ಯು ರಾರ ಯರು ರರಾಜ 4

--- Page 241 ---
| ? 2-3")
is wx
’ ¢
< ಳು Universal 507700
ಡಿಜಿ

J ‘on Taaii foment
joint surveys in the field during July and August, as referenced in our communications: Ref: USGI/PMFBY/KR-

+ 2022/1000002 dated July 26, 2022, and USGI/PMFBY/KAR/2022-23-25 dated August 12, 2022,

* + However, it's worth noting that the District Agriculture team was also engaged in flood assessments across
the district during this period, Additionally, we received oral communication from concerned district and
taluk 0170215 indicating their busy schedules and a lack of sufficient manpower, which prevented them from

Participating in LR/PHL surveys in the field.
| + In light of these challenges, the Insurance Company (IC) conducted surveys in the field and is in the process
of submitting requests for corrections to rectify any lapses. We remain confident that the claims processed
only include enrolled farmers in the taluk and gram panchayat, ensuring a fair and accurate assessment,
. * Non-loanee farmers covered through non-online channels must submit a filled proposal/application form
with supporting documents. These documents Include Aadhaar Card, Bank Passbook, (28ರ Ownership
ಈ proaf/contract document, or any other document specified by the State Government for identification, The
Purpose is to identify sharecroppers, tenant farmers, or individuals intending to cultivate the proposed crop.

* Individual farmer-wise intimation is 2 pre-condition 10 getting benefits for the localized ¢laim and post-
harvest (06-21.5.8.2).

* We received the intimations from farmers individually through the Bot system (Helpline: 100-200-5142
and Weblink -https://login.universalsompo.in/crop_ciaim_website/), and Manual intimations were
received and loss assessment took place as per the PMFBY guidelines.

* Further, there is ೧೦ such preventive sowing or midseason adversity invoked in the IU or taluk’s in
Chitradurga.

+ No shortfall occurred in the major crops Groundnut (RF) as per Crop cutting experiments carried out during
the season,

= | + Claims have Been disbursed directly to thé beneficiaries’ bank accounts, which are linked (6 Aadhaar
through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system. It's important to note that once the details of Aadhaar or
ಕ any enrolled farmers are entered during the enrallment process, they cannot be edited or modified in the
Universal Sompo General Insurance Co. (10.
ಬ Covert Oe: Ut No 0S, tt Fer, Acad Se, AOC Cert Rand, ಕರು
| Ta ಗಳಲ 1 ೧೮9 10003 ONION ರಾಳ cmt ಯಾ 0
3 a
a

--- Page 242 ---
74?
‘
ಜು Universal Sompo
ಹಿಂ ಎ
2. Tiss Wore tebe ae
Samrakshane portal.
+ AS per PMFBY 0G, IU can't be considered for further claims or compensation in add-on coverages or CCE-
generated claims.
This analysis report focuses on the verification findings related to crop cutting, localized, and post-harvest losses
. under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) in Chitradurga, specifically in the Challakere taluk. district P
Mahadevapura Grama Panchayat The report is based on the verification process carried out in line with the instructions
from the esteemed office letter dated 01-08-2023.
After carefully examining the documents mentioned above, it was evident that there have been no instances
where the settlement of claims has deviated from the prescribed guidelines.
We are looking forward to your continuous patronage. 2,
Yours Faithfully
beh ©
Authorized Signatory for Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd.
Copies for more information
|
Univers! Sompo Genoa insurance Co. Ld.
| ರಗ ರ ag: ces (© Mun DS erate
ಗಜ Tere ರ ಯು ಯುಬಿ ಯ ಯು ಬು ಜು

--- Page 243 ---
COA-CDPOCI(TA)/59/2023-CI-COMMISSIONERATE OF AGRICULTURE
ಟಟ ಲ INSURANCE 17) “Q,
Vices
¢ aCe
: Government of Karnataka .
7 (Department of Agriculture)
: Commissionerate of Agriculture Sheshadri Road, Bengaluru-01,
No.JDA(C!)/Chitradurga-P.Mahadevapura/34/2023-24 Date:07.11.2023
Sir,
Sub: Localised calamities and Post Harvest Losses claims paid to
__ farmers during Kharif 2022 reg.
Ref: 1.Letter received from District Collector, Chitradurga district
Nomg 6:22) 08:2050%1 1/2023-24, ದಿ:15.09.2023.
2. Grievance received from the farmer dated:03.11.2023.
3. This office letter No: 6೩196ಜಕ್ಳನಿ(ಬೆವಿ)/ಮನವಿಗಳು/30/
2020-21/2022-23, ದಿ:22.09.2023.
4. Reply leiter from USGIC Siaie Head lelter No:USGI/
PMFBY/2023-24/182, dt:03.11.2023.
4 ಆ
Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) scheme is implemented in the
ಬತ State since 2016-17 and 05010 has been implementing the scheme in few
clusters of the State since inception.
As you are aware, all the CCE based claims payments and claims due to
add on covers are made through State own portal “Samrakshane”. The claims are
settled to the farmers to Aadhaar linked accounts thus ensuring 100%
transparency in the system.

The scheme is implemented based on the revamped operational guidelines
which include a defined protocol and set of procedures to be followed in the
implementation of the-scheme. For all the claims due to add on covers, State
Government has streamlined the procedure in the portal as per the protocol
defined in the RoG.

During Kharif 2022 in Chitradurga district, Challakere taluk,
P.Mahadevapura Gram Panchayat 155 number of Localized & Post harvest loss
intimations were received for Groundnut crop and accordingly insurance company

ತೆ has settled the claims of Rs.130.53 lakhs.

Details of number of intimations for Localised Calamities(LC) & Post harvest

x losses (PHL) as per the data downloaded from the portal for which the claims are
settled is as below:
Add Number of a
11:73
toe ee ಇಷಾ... ೫

--- Page 244 ---
COA-CDPOGITA)/59/2023-CI-COMMISSIONERATE OF AGRICULTURE
6768632/2023/CROP INSURANCE i
1/508559/2023 =
2a
The CCE based data reveals that there is no shortfall in yield for the said
crop and insurance unit in Kharif 2022 season. : 8
As in the referred 191101(2), ೩ grievance has been received from group of .
farmers of Chitradurga district, Challakere taluk, P.Mahadevapura Gram .
Panchayat, complaining that the claims under LC and PHL paid to the farmers of
the said insurance unit (IU) have been settled even though the crops are not sown,
that the land is fallow etc. which means false claims have been settled.
Based on the farmer grievance the Chitradurga district Collector has
constituted a committee and the committee has been ordered to probe the matter.
Based on the committee report, as in the referred letter(1) the issue is now
escalated by the DC, Chitradurga to the State level. The letter states that, out of
161 intimations, 93 intimations are not genuine, for which suitable legal action has
to be initiated against the insurance company.
In Karnataka, from 2018-19 the crop insurance claims are settled based on
the crop survey data. You are aware that the claims for LC & PHL will be based on
sample survey or individual survey depending on the cropped area and the number
of intimations received in the district. Further, the LC & PHL claims will be settled
‘on the basis of crop loss report which is arrived at after the joint survey. It is
observed that for all the intimation in the said IU individual survey of LC & PHL is ೩
conducted. As in the referred letter(3), this office had sought clarification from the ‘
insurance company and for which the State head, USGIC, has provided the details
and are not enough to justify the matter.
In this regard, you are hereby informed to provide the documents as detailed
below:
1, What is the mode of the receipt of the intimations receivod in the said IU?
2, For intimations received through tol! free number the call log detalls to be shared. For
intimations received through ather modes, valid documents to be shared. Documents to be
provided for each intimatians.
3. Who are the loss assessors appointed?
4, Whether the loss assessors possess the experience and qualification as mentioned in the
~~ clause 21.5.6.1 of RoG?
5. Whether all the intimations in the said IU are surveyed as per the clause 21.5.10 of ೧೦೧?
6. If the survey is conducted, whether the necessary details are documented? If documented the
same to be shared for each intimations.
7. Weather data of the insurance unit for the calamity (along with the source of information) to be
provided.
For all the above points from SI.No:1 to SI.No:7, you need to provide the
requisite documents along with detailed explanation within 5 working days from the
receipt of this letter, failing which suitable legal action will be taken.
Signed by
Fatl Yala jouda 1 8
SRE SAPP SHOE
To, ಇ
Rajbir Chadha
Head crop and Agribusiness at Universal Sompo General Insurance co. Itd.
Mumbai, Maharashtra.

--- Page 245 ---
2 ಟದ 7 aa
ಕ
1 =
4 at Universal Sompo
Gene uae @
| | Sate: 2-14-2005 | "Ref: USGI/PMFBY/2023-24/185
To,
Hon'ble Commissioner of Agriculture,
Department of Agriculture,
Commissioners’ office, No-O1, Sheshadri road,
Bangalore-01,
Subject: - Reply letter Regarding Localized calamities and Post Harvest Losses ctaims paid to farmers during Kharif
2022 reg.
Reference:
1. The: As discussed in the KDP meeting held on 23.06.2023,
. 2. Hon'ble Collector, Chitradurga’ s letter No: Grale. Staff: CR-1/2023-24, Q: 27.06.2023. :
| 3. Dated: 11.07.2023 as discussed in the meeting presided aver by Hon'ble Additional Collector, Chitradurga
4. Dated: 31.07.2023 as indicated by the Hon'ble District Collector in the NCORD meeting.
5. Assistant Director of Agriculture, Challakere letter No: Sakkani/Ch/P.M.F.8.¥/2022-23, : 08.08.2023.
6. Notice asking for reason SI: JDA/CTA/Date/KR-PMFBY/Crop Insurance/2023-24,
7. Personal Secretary to Hon'ble Minister of Agriculture's note No: KrisAaka/2277/2023, dated 01.09.2023.
8. IDA ICoffice's email letter dated 13.09.2023.
9. Collector, Chitradurga's letter No: Gra Le:Sibbandi 2006-11/2023-24 : 15.09.2023.
10. St: JDA(IC]Requests/30/2020-21/2022-23, Dated: 22-09:2023.
33: Reply letter from USGIC State Head letter No:UISGI/PMFRY/2023-24/182, dt:03.13.2023
12. No.JDA(CI)/Chitradurga-P.Mahadevapura/34/2023-24, Date:07.11.2023.
Greetings from Universal Sompo GIC ರ!
Respected Sir,
We are writing to provide a detailed update on our recent efforts and accomplishments regarding Localized
|. Catamities and Post Harvest Losses (LR/PHL) claims paid to farmers during the Kharif 2022 season.
a In reference te the official letter with the identifier JOA(CI)/Chitradurga-P:Mahadevapura/34/2023-24, dated
07.11.2023, we would like to draw your attention to the remarkable strides made by Universal Sompo General Insurance
' Company Ltd (USGIC) in the implementation of LR/PHL initiatives across districts in Karnataka.
ಟಟ ಲ್‌ ಟ್ಟ
ಜೀ ಗ ರಲಲ ಫಲೀೀೀರ್ಸ್ಸ್ಟೂೂೂಾ್ತ
2241053900] 140/00 Fo ree AAT’ 18002004000 ಸಯಲ ಎವಾ ಯರ ಯಮ

--- Page 246 ---
aM
Since the initiation of LR/PHL intimation acceptance in the implementing districts of Karnataka from 2020 to 2023,
USGIC has diligently processed approximately 6.3 lakh intimation cases. The total payments disbursed under LR/PHL
during this period amount to an impressive 219.36 crores, (2020-2022) establishing USGIC as the leading company in
handling localized claims over the past four seasons.
Regarding the letter requesting details and justification, we are providing the information below for your further
reference:
‘We have received LR/PHL intimations in this IU on nine different dates, specifically on September Sth, October 3rd, 9th,
12th, 13th, 19th, and November 3rd and 5th, as well as December 13th and 14th, 2022, respectively.
+ All intimations from the mentioned IU were received via both the Toll-free Helpline (180-200-5142) and the
designated Web link (https://login.universalsompo.in/crop_claim_website/), conveniently accessible on the ಷಃ
USGIC office website, ensuring open access for the public. ಕ
Out of the 161 cases, 19 were received through the Toll-Free number, and 142 cases were received through the | ~ ಆ
| designated web link, Both sets of details are attached in the letter for your reference.
| «Traditionally, most of the PMFBY implementing companies hire third-party vendors to provide field-related
services, In line with this practice, USGIC has engaged M/S The National Commodities Management Services
| Limited (NCML). In this survey, 3 total of 11 members participated, and their identities, along with signatures,
| have been duly verified and documented in the provided form. Additionally, four team leaders were part of the
survey team.
«As per the Operational Guidelines (0G) 21.5.6.1, the selected surveyors for the loss assessment team possess 2
minimum of 2 years of experience in PMFBY ficld activities. The team has been actively working as loss assessors
in the field since the year 2020.
» Adhering to Operational Guidelines (06) 21.5.10 of PMEDY, the IC (Insurance Company) has selected and
conducted the loss assessment in the field within the stipulated timeline of 10 days.
* Attached herewith are the relevant details for your reference. Attached herewith are the details related to the |
conducted survey, organized case-wise. This includes the Survey Form, field photos, and Government office crop
survey photos in accordance with the Crop Survey Portal for Kharif 2022. .
© We have sourced weather-related data from the Kamataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, and all |
Universal Sompo Genera insulance Co, Lis.
a rnp ಬಾಲ ಬ ಬಬ್ಲಿ

--- Page 247 ---
os oF
if
a Pt
i atom oaria 6
validated data has been enclosed in a date-wise format for your review.
The field survey team meticulously conducted a comprehensive loss assessment, strictly adhering to the instructions
+] Outlined by farmers during the field selection and loss assessment in the selected field. Throughout previous instances,
both the state and insurance Companies (ICs) have consistently adhered to the PMFBY Guidelines, demonstrating a
diligent commitment to farmers’ welfare in processing claims for eligible beneficiaries,
In the challenging drought year in Karnataka, our unwavering commitment to prompt and efficient service was evident.
During this period, USGIC received over 82 thousand localized intimation cases, highlighting our steadfast dedication to
supporting farmers through adverse conditions.
We are looking forward to your continuous patronage.
ಚಿ ಛಿ
ತ LEY
Yours Faithfully
Rajbir Singh Chadha |
Authorized Signatory for Universal Sompo General insurance Company Ltd. |
‘Copies for more information
Universal Sompo Gensral insurance Co. Lis.
ಬ ಯಲ Cent Road, Gar Nap, Ache (EM 0009, Mabarase
1.೮22 4162960) 52000 701/೪ Ma 1600-2400 18022004000 | ರ ಇರಾ COLI ConaChaQuehe snp CON

--- Page 248 ---
he S 0,
x! eu ಕೈ ನಿರ್ದೇಕ5 40.
ಕಾಣು enh ಆದ್‌.ಎಂ.೬. cf, ಟತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-571581 aod ೫7...
_ರೋದಾಗೆ9134-11104 (6011: )638716138/3700 0-10
ಷೆ STI sy 44 | Oe
ಘ್‌ 5 i ಹ
ವು ಸುಡ ದ ಸರ್ಕ
. ಸಹಾಯಕ UL ನಿರ್ದೆಶಕರು,
ಚಳ್ಳೆ
ಸ ಮಿಸಯಿ- 2022 ರ ಮುಂಗಾರು ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ಯೋಜನೆಯಡಿ ಹಿ.ಮಹರೇವಮರ ಗ್ರಾಮ ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ
ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆ ವಿಮ Aa ಪರಹಾರ ವಿತರಣಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ಶಾಂತಮ್ಮರಾಗಿರುವ How.
COD 1 ಔನಾಂಕ27-06-2023ರಂದು ನೆಡೆ 8.ಡ.ಡಿ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ
E; 2, ಮಾನ್ಯ ಬಿಲ್ಲಿಕಾರಿಗಳಿ, ಚಿತ್ರರುರ್ಗ ಇವರೆ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ/ ಗ್ರಾಲೆ)ಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ/ಆರ್‌-1112023-24.
77-06-2023 ಸ್ರ
3. ದಿನಾಂಕ 11-97-2023 ರಂದು ಮಾಸ್ಕ ಆವರ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ
ಆಧ್ಯಕಕೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಜರ್ಚಿಸಿರಂತೆ.
AL ತಮ್ಮ ಕೇರಿ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಸಸಕ್ಕನಿ/ಚ/ಒ.ಮ/ಪ್ರಥ.ಲಿ;ಯೋ/1022-23, 0:08.08.2023.
5. ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಜಕೃನಿ/ಚಿತಾಂ-ಬವಿ/ತ,ವ/2023-24, ದಿ.0109,2023,
6 5 ಕಲರಿ ಪತ್ರ ಸಯಖ್ಕನಿ/ಚಿಗಾಂಗಾಸ್ಕೈಸುಪ್ರಥವೀಿವ/2023-24, ೦1052023,
3 ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರ ಪತ್ತ ಸಂ: ಗ್ರಾಲೆಂಬ್ಬಂದಿಡಆರ್‌-1/2023-24.
0; 15-09-2023,
8 USGIC 60ಪಾಯವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ%/ USGUPMIBY/2023-241t85, Date: 11.11.2023
9. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಪತ್ರೆ ಸಂ: ಜಕ್ಕೆನ(ಜಿಿ)14/ಬತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-ಹಿ.ಮಹದೇವಮರ/2023-
24. ಣಿ: 17112025
ತ ಮೇಲಿನ ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂದಿಸಿದಂತೆ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಬಿಲ್ಲಿ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ. ತಾಲ್ಲೂಕು, ಪಿ.ಮಹದೇವಮರ ಗ್ರಾಮ
. ಪಯಾಯತಿ ವ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯ ರೈತರು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-1 ರಂತೆ 2822ರ ' ಮುಂಗಾರು ಹಂಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳಿ ನಪ್ಪ ಪರಿಷಾರ
ಹ ವಿಶರಣಿಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಯವಾಗಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಮನವಿ ಪತ್ರವನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಉಳ್ಲೇಖ-2 & 3 ರಂತೆ ಸದರಿ
: ವಿಡಯದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ zat ನಡೆಸಲು ಸಮಿತಿಯನ್ನು ರಚಿಸಿ ಅದೇಶಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು ಅದರಂತೆ ತನಿಖಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು
ಉ್ಲೇಖಿ-4 dod ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಳ್ಳಕಿಕೆ ಇವರು ಸೆಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದು, ಸದರಿ ತನಿಖಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು
ಪ ಬಾಡ್ಲೇವಿ-5ರಂತೆ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ. ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-6 dod ಯುನಿವರ್ಸ್‌ಲ್‌ ಸೋಂಮೋ
ಜನೆರ್‌ ಇಷ್ದೂಕೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿಗೆ ಸಮಜಾಯಿಶಿ ನೀಡಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ್ದು, ಆದರಂತೆ (ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-8 ರಲ್ಲಿ 05010
ಕೆಂಪನಿಯವರು cist ವಿಧಾನದಲ್ಲಿ ಕೈತರಿಂದ ಜಿಕೆ ays ಕುರಿತು ಮಾಹಿತಿ] ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ವಿವರಣ
ನೀಡಿದುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಆದರೆ ಇದಕ್ಕೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ Call log details ಹಾಗೂ web link ನಲ್ಲಿನ Raw data
ಮಾಹಿತಿಯನ್ನು ನೀಡಿದುದುದಿಲ್ಲ ಹಾಗೂ ಇವುಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದ ಸೂಕ್ತ ದಾಖಲೆಗಳನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ.
ಸದರಿ ವಿಮಾ. ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು. ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದ. ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳನ್ನು ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು. PMFBY
ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಥನೆ ಮಾಡಿ ಜಂಟಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಯನ್ನು ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳದೆ. ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು oF ಪಕ್ಷೀಯವಾಗಿ.
ಸಮಿಕ್ಷೆ ಕೈಗೊಂಡು ರೈತರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ dag ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನ್ಯೂನತೆ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದು ಕಂಡು ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆ ಎಂದು
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಿ- ರಲ್ಲಿ ಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರು ಸದರಿ ತನಿಖಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಒಪ್ಪಿ ಆದರಲ್ಲಿ ತಿ0ಸಿರುವ ಬಟ್ಟ 93
ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ ರೂ. 83,10 ಲಕ್ಷ ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರಿಂದ axed ಮಾಡಿಸಿ.
ಸರ್ಥರಕ್ಕೆ ಮುರು ಶಾರತಿಸುರಂತೆ ಕ್ರಮ ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಹಾಗೂ 114811! ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲಂಘಸಿದ
USGIC ಕಂಪನಿಯದರ ವಿರುದ್ಧ ಸೂಕ್ತ ಕಾನೂನು ಕ್ರಮ ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ.
a ಸಹ
ಜಂಟ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು
ಸ ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ,
ಪ್ರತಿಯನ್ನು:
1 ಮಾನ್ಶ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರು, ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಬೆಂಗಳೂರು, ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ. ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದ
ಕ 2. ಮಾಸ್ಕ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು. ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳ ಕಾರ್ಯಾಲಯ, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ಇವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಹಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸರಿಸಿದೆ,
ತಮ್ಮ sped -
| Psa Uc ಅರ್ಪ”
penne a
I 9. 1೩02
ait
Scanned with ಚ ತ್ತ

--- Page 249 ---
3 <
; SAMA comme tes pt stapes ya Daas: 19-12-383. ಹ
ಇವರಗ, ಇತತ 2
ವ ಫೈ ಇಂರ೯ tres. ‘
ವಿಷಯ 2027 ಆ ಮುಂಗಾಗು ಬಿಳಿ Seb aleervioha ಹಿ.ಮನದೇವನುರಗ್ರಾಡ coment
ಸ ಕ್‌ BE MOD ಬಳೆ ವಿಮೆ ನಷ್ಟ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಏತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ತಾರತಮ್ಮವಾಗಿರುವಕುರಿರು.
ಉಲ್ಲೇಖಯ-(/ Decne OMe sda ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
DL aera, ಪಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕರರಿಗಳು, sar sae ಪತ್ರೆ ಸಂಸ್ತಾಲೆ-ಸಿಬ್ಬಂದಿ-2-ಆರ್‌-11/2023-74,
5 27-06-2023
3೩. Osos: 11-07-2073 ರಂದು ಮಾನರ್ಯ್ಯಪರ: ಪಿಲ್ಲುಭಿಣಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗರದರ
ಅಧ್ಯಕ್ಷತೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ನಡೆದ ಸಭೆಯಲ್ಲಿ ಚರ್ಚಿಸಿದಂತೆ.
ತನ್ನು ಶೆಟಿರಿದೆತ್ತ ಸಂಸಸತ್ಯನಿ//ತಿ.ಮಪ್ರಫಐಯೋ12022-23, ದಿ:09.08.2023.
5. ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂಜಕೃನಿ/ಚಿತಾಂ-1/ಬ.ವಿ/ಚ.5/2023-24, ದಿ.01.09.2073.
6. ಈ ಕಛೇರಿ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ.ಜಕೃನಿ/ಚಿತಾಂ।ಕಾ ರೈಸು.ಪ್ರಫ.ಜೀ/ಬೆ,ವ/2923-24, ೦ಿ.1108,2023.
7. ಮಾನ್ಯ ಪೆಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗರವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: ಗ್ರಾಲೆ.ಿಬ್ಬಂದಿಸಿಆರ್‌-11/2023-24.
ಡಿ: 15-09-2023.
8. 05010 ಕಂಪನಿಯವರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ:0501/1/801//7023-24/85, Date: 11.112023
9. ಮಾಸ್ಯತೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ತರ ಪತ್ರ ಸಂ: ಜಕ್ಕನಿ(ಬೆ.ಎ)/4/ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ-ಒಮಹರೇವಹುರ/2023-
24, ದಿ; 17.41.2023
é ಮೇಲಿನ. ವಿಷಯಕ್ಕೆಸಂಬಂದಿಸಿದಂತೆ. ಚಿತ್ರರುರ್ಗಜಿನ್ಲೆ, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ Rog ದಿ.ಮಹದೇವಮುರಗ್ರಾಮ, ಪಂಚಾಯತಿ
5 ಪ್ಯಾಪ್ತಿಯರೈತರು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-1 ರಂತೆ2022ರ ಮುಂಗಾರು ಹಂಗಾಮಿನಲ್ಲಿ ಬೆಳೆ xe ಪರಿಷಾರ ವಿತರಣೆಯಲ್ಲಿತಾರತಮ್ಮವಾಗಿರುವ
ಹ್‌ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ಮನವಿ ಪತ್ರವನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ. ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-2೩ 3 vod ಸರರಿ ವಿಜಯದ ಬಗ್ಗೆ ತನಿಖೆ ನಡೆಸಲು ಸಮಿತಿಯನ್ನು ರಚಿಸಿ
ಆವೇಶಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು ಆದರಂತಿತನಿ ಬಾ ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-4 dod ಸಜಂಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ ಇವರು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ್ದು
ಪ್ಪ ಸದರಿತನಿಖಾ: ವರದಿಯನ್ನು ಉಜ್ಲೇಖ-5ರಂತೆಮಾಸ್ಯ ಜಿಲ್ಲಾಧಿಕಾರಿಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಲಾಗಿದೆ ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-6 ರಂತೆಯುನಿವರ್ಸ್‌ಲ್‌
ಸೋಂಪೋ ಜನರಲ್‌ಇನ್ನೂರೆನ್ಸ್‌ ಕಂಪನಿಗೆ ಸಮಜಾಯತ ನೀಡಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದ್ದು, ಅದರಂತೆಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-$ ರಲ್ಲಿ USGIC
ಕ೦ಪನಿಯವರುಯಾವ  ವಿಧಾನದಲ್ಲಿಕ್ಕತರಿಂದ ಬೆಳೆ ನಪ್ಟದಬುರಿತು ಮಾಹಿತಿ ಪಡೆದಿರುವ ಬಗ್ಗ ವಿವರಣೆ ನೀಡಿರುತ್ತಾರೆ.ಆದರೆಇದಕ್ಕೆ
ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆ Call log details ಹಾಗೂ web tink ನಲ್ಲಿ4118% 68ಯಮಾಹಿತಿಯನ್ನು ನೀಡಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ ಹಾಗೂ ಇವುಗಳಿಗೆ
ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದ ಸೂಕ್ತ ದಾಖಲೆಗಳನ್ನು ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿರುವುದಿಲ್ಲ.
ಸದರಿ ವಿಮಾ ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರುಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದ ದಾಖಲಾತಿಗಳನ್ನು ಪರಿಶೀಲಿಸಲಾಗಿದ್ದು 114883 ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನುಉುಲ್ಲಂಘನೆ
ಮಾಡಿಜಂಟಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಯನ್ನು splays ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವರು ಏಕಪಕ್ಷೀಯವಾಗಿ ಸಮೀಕ್ಷೆಕ್ಕೆಗೊಂಡುರೈತರಿಗೆ ಪರಿಹಾರ ಮೊತ್ತ
ವಿತರಣಿಯಲ್ಲಿನ್ಯೂವತೆ ಮಾಡಿರುವುದುಕಂಡು ಬಂದಿರುತ್ತದೆಎಂದು ಉಲ್ಲೇಖ-9 ರಲ್ಲಿಮಾನ್ಯ ಕೃಷಿ ಆಯುಕ್ಷರುಸದರಿತನಿಬಾ
ವಂಟಿಯನ್ನುಖಪ್ಪಿರದಲಲ್ಲಿ ತಿಳಿಸಿರುವ ಒಟ್ಟ 93 ಪ್ರಕರಣಗಳಿಗೆ ಸಂಬಂಧಿಸಿದಂತೆರೂ.. 83,16 of ಮೊತ್ತವನ್ನು ವಿಮಾ
i ಸಂಸ್ಥೆಯವ0ಂದ ವಸೂಲಿ ಮಾಡಿಸಿ ಸರ್ಕಾರಕ್ಕೆ ಮರು ಪಾವತಿಸುವಂತೆಕ್ರಮ ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಹಾಗೂ PMFBY ಮಾರ್ಗಸೂಚಿಯನ್ನು
ಕ್‌ ಎಲ್ಲಂಘಸಿದ USGIC ಕಂಪನಿಯವರವಿರುದ್ದಸೂಕ್ತ ಕಾನೂರು ತಮ ಕೈಗೊಳ್ಳಲು ಸೂಚಿಸಿದೆ.
2 ಸಹ
ಸಹಾಯಕ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು,
ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ.
ಪತಿಯನ್ನು ಜಂಟಿ ಕೃಷಿ ನಿರ್ದೇಶಕರು, ಚಿತ್ರದುರ್ಗ ರವರಿಗೆ ಮಾಡಿತಿಗಾಗಿ ಸಲ್ಲಿಸಿದೆ.
ಸಹಾದುಕ ಕೃಷಿ ಸ
ಚಳ್ಳಕೆರೆ,

--- Page 250 ---
x OF, ಸಭ ;
IS gate 0.11೩ of
g Be See Vv
Qsiey High Court of Karnataka ಗಿಗಾ -
1
|
Status: Pending
Case Number: CRL.P 589/2024 Classification: 482{Cr.PC) /528(8NSS) Date of Filing: 16/01/2024 15:57:48
(KAHC010033792024)
| Petitioner: BALARAJU PC Petitioner Advocate: ARNAV A
BAGALWADI
Respondent: STATE OF KARNATAKA Respondent Advocate:
Filing No. CRL.P 531/2024 Judge: S.SUNIL DUTT YADAV
Last Posted For: ORDERS Last Date of Action: 20/01/2024 Last Action Taken: NOTICE
Next Hearing Date:
Daily Orders: CRL.P 589/2024
1 S.SUNIL DUTT YADAV 20/01/2024
SriVinay Mahadevaiah, learned High Court Government Pleader appearing on behalf of State
accepts notice for the 1st respondent.
೯ 2. Emergent notice to Respondent No.2.
3. Sri.Sandesh J, Chouta, Learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submits that
ಶೆ the complaint made is to the effect that the company has violated scheme guidelines and
ಇ conducted a one-sided survey. Accordingly, there is a fraud commited in disbursal of compensation
of farmers under the scheme Pradhan Mantri Fasal Birna Yojana. 1! is on such terms, complaint has
been lodged and it has been taken note of and 8.1.8 has been lodged,
4. In the event of any grievance regarding subject matter of complaint, same shall could be looked
into in terms of Grievance Redressal Mechanism as per Clause 30 of the Scheme. It is submitted
that the claim came to be honoured as per Clause 21.5.6.3 of the Scheme which provides for joint
decision taken involving the block level agricultural officer as well, It is submitted that even
otherwise, the complaint is only against an offical, without initiating proceedings against the
Insurance company or others and such proceedings against an employee, would prima facie
Indicate a malafide proceeding sought 10 be initiated by singling out of the petitioner who 15 only an
employee of the company.
5. In view of the circumstances, the case is made out for exercise of power under Section 482 of
೦೫.೧
6. Accordingly, there would be a stay of further proceedings pursuant to registration of ೯18 in
‘Crime No.181/2023.
7. Office objection raised to be complied within a periad of one week.
Last Updated On: 2024-01-20 16:32:18
ಇ
4
ಕ
22221 di ae

--- Page 251 ---
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
(
Universal Sompo General Insurance v. Commissioner of Agriculture,
ಕ್ಷೆ Company Limited Karnataka and Others
| PETITIONER RESPONDENTS
We, Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Limited, the Petitioner in the
above matter and duly represented herein by Mr. Pushpashil Karve ( Serov™
| Norager ಅ hereby appoint and retain Mr. Preetham Jude Correa,
| Advoéate, to appear, act and plead for us in the above matter and to
conduct/prosecute and defend the same in all interlocutory or miscellaneous
proceedings connected with the same or with any decree or orders passed therein,
appeals and or other proceedings arising therefrom, and also in proceedings for
review of judgment and for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court and to obtain return
of any documents filed, or receive any money which may be payable to us.
We hereby authorise him on our behalf to enter into a compromise in the above
matter, to execute any decree/order therein, to appeal from any decree/order therein
and to appeal, to act and to plead in such appeal or in any preferred by any other
party from any decree/order therein. We further agree that if we fail to pay the fees
. agreed upon or to give due instructions at all stages, they are at liberty to retire from
ಈ the case and recover all amounts due to them and to retain all our monies till such
P dues are paid. =
Executed on this, the 4-day of December 2024 at Mumbai, M CON
xecuted on this, the @4.day of December 2024 at Mumbai, MaArSshtra \ .
0 |
utant is personally known to me and has signed before 'mb. "
(4 ff enter Manager ~ Auget ೧೦1.) g
Satisfied as to the identity of the signature of the executant.
Certified, that the contents were explained to the executant in my presence in the
English language known to him who appears to perfectly understand the same and
has signed in my presence.
ACCEPTED ರ್ಗ
Advocate for Petitioner: Preetham Jude Correa, KAR / 1295 /2020
ಆ
| Bangalore Address for Service:
ತ Date: 0 ೧12025 Preetham Jude Correa,
“Maruthi Krupa”, No. 4, 91% ‘A’ Cross,
Kumara Park West, Railway Parallel Road,
Bangalore — 560 020
7219215197 / 9986931671, preethamcorreal13@gmail.com

--- Page 252 ---
250 Universal Sompo
General Insurance
ನು Hamecha ಗೌಣ Gary
—
‘
x“
: ‘TO. WHOMSOEVER 17 MAY CONCERN
ALL KNOW BY THESE PRESENTS THAT under the authority of the Board of Directors of
Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd vide 0 resolution passed at it's 04" Board
Meeting held on 24" May 2023, 1, Mahendra Kumar Tripathi (Chief Compliance Officer)
hereby authorise Mr. Pushpashil Karve (Senior Manager - Legal & Compliance, Employee
Code - US 4503), as Authorized Signatory to do following on behalf of the Company as per
Standard Operating Pracedure while in employment of the Company:
10 sign and execute in the matters/cases before the High Court / MACT Courts ತೆ
Consumer Courts / Arbitration Matters and also relating to Government Gommunications
and Letters issued by Law Enforcement Agencies, for and on behalf of the Company.
| Ali the actions taken in the interest of the Company and in a bonafide manner by the above
said Mr, 01151125711 Karve shall be binding on the Company, for all times to come.
೯ ‘This Authority Letter ts valid till March 31, 2025.
- For Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Ltd.
"i 4
ira Tripathi) Dated- 101% April 2024
Chief Compliance Officer Place - Mumbai
Acknowledgement
Thereby accept:
cpuinp ean carve)
Senior Manager - Legal & Compliance
7 (Employee Code -US 4503)
’
ಇತನಾ ——- ಚ ರಾ
Registered & Corporate Office: Unit No 103, 1st Floor, Adu Star, ೩4000, ೧೮00 (೭) 1ರ. 400095, Maharashis, india.
Tet 022 41660800 1 60620000 708 Free 1 800 22-4030 / 1-800-200-4030 Weboite : www.untvcractsompe.com 3
Emas contactus@uerverssisomes.com. CINE UGEO1OMHZ00TPLC1E6770 |IRDAL No. 734 =

--- Page 253 ---
| “ತೆ
|
|
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
(ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
i WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
ಹ
BETWEEN:
Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
| AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS
INDEX
ಸ | 1. | Application seeking dispensation with production of
certified copies of Annexures A,B,C,Ci,andD —|?5*~743
2. | Affidavit in support of the Application seeking
dispensation with production of certified copies of DAH
Annexures A, B, C, ೮1, and D
oe
BANGALORE (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
\¥ .01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER
’

--- Page 254 ---
1S
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
(ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
ತ WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
ಆ
1ANo. of 2025
| BETWEEN:
Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS
Pp
ಬ APPLICATION UNDER SECTION 151 OF THE CODE OF CIVIL
. : PROCEDURE, 1908
For the reasons assigned in the affidavit that accompanies this application,
the undersigned counsel for the Petitioner prays that this Hon'ble Court may
be pleased to dispense with production of certified copies of:
. @ Annexure A—the Official Memorandum No. GraaLe Sibbandi: CR -
-
11/2023-24 dated 27.06.2023 issued by the 214 Respondent — Deputy
Commissioner, Chitradurga
(i) Amnexure ಟ್ಟ — the Report No. JaKrani/Chi/Thaam-
1/Be.Vi/Tha.Va/2023-24 dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the 3
7 Respondent — Joint Director Agriculture, Chitradurga ಕ
| (i) Annexure © and Cl ಈ ತ the letters No.
JaKraNi(BeVi)/34/Chitradurga—P.Mahadevapura/2023-24 issued by
the 1% Respondent — Commissioner of Agriculture, Karnataka on
17.11.2023 and on 19.12.2023, respectively

--- Page 255 ---
3
(iv) Annexure D = letter No. JaKraNi/Chi/Thaam-
1/P.Mahadevapura/Be.Vime/Ha.Ma.Paa/2023-24 dated 20.12.2023
= issued by the 3% Respondent — Joint Director of Agriculture,
i Chitradurga
BANGALORE (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
10 .01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER
೫.
.
4
ತೆ

--- Page 256 ---
25%
IN THE HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA AT BANGALORE
(ORIGINAL JURISDICTION)
A WRIT PETITION NO. OF 2025
TANo. of 2025
BETWEEN:
ಹ Universal Sompo General
Insurance Company Limited PETITIONER
AND
Commissioner of Agriculture and Others RESPONDENTS
7 AFFIDAVIT IN SUPPORT OF THE ACCOMPANYING APPLICATION
a I, Preetham Jude Correa, Advocate (aged 27 years and S/o Late Pramod
Correa, Address: “Maruthi Krupa”, No. 4, 9% ‘A’ Cross, Kumara Park West,
Railway Parallel Road, Bangalore — 560 020) do hereby affirm on oath as
follows: ಕೆ
1. Iam the advocate for the Petitioner and thus competent to swear this
affidavit.
ಪಾಕ
2. The following documents, of which quashing is sought, have been produced
as annexures to this petition:
(0) Annexure A — the Official Memorandum No. Graale Sibbandi: CR —
11/2023-24 dated 27.06.2023 issued by the 2nd Respondent — Deputy 3
.
ತ್‌ Commissioner, Chitradurga
ಕ್‌

--- Page 257 ---
(i)Annexure B — the Report No. JaKrani/Chi/Thaam—
UBe.Vi/Tha.Va/2023-24 dated 01.09.2023 drawn up by the 3rd
Respondent — Joint Director Agriculture, Chitradurga
ಖ್‌

(iii) Annexure C and Cli — _ the letters No.
JaKraNi(BeVi)/34/Chitradurga—P._Mahadevapura/2023-24 issued by the
Ist Respondent — Commissioner of Agriculture, Karnataka on 17.11.2023
and on 19.19.2023, respectively
(iv) Annexure D — letter No, JaKraNi/Chi/Thaam-
UP.Mahadevapura/Be. Vime/Ha.Ma.Paa/2023-24 dated 20.12.2023 issued
by the 3rd Respondent — Joint Director of Agriculture, Chitradurga

3. These documents have been issued by the Respondents and are available
in their records. I have applied for certified copies but have not received
them at the time of filing this petition. 1 will produce the certified copies

೩
> within four weeks from today.
ಎ 5

4. Therefore, it is prayed that this Hon'ble Court be pleased to allow the
application that this affidavit accompanies and dispense with production
of certified copies of the mentioned annexures in the interest of justice and
equity.

cy
BANGALORE (PREETHAM JUDE CORREA)
\® 01.2025 ADVOCATE FOR THE PETITIONER
.
ಇ
ತ್ರ
೫
